Condition Category	entrez_id	Gene	Disease categories	疾病	Condition Name	Inherited Mode	Disease Generalization	Disease Treatment	Disease Treatment来源	解读人	版本	初步核查结果	基因-疾病关联数备注	备注-研发	中文简介及治疗修改备注	英文版修改-备注
Metabolism-Amino Acid  Metabolism Disorders	5053	PAH	Hyperphenylalaninemia	苯丙酮尿症	Phenylketonuria	AR	Phenylketonuria (PKU) is an inherited disorder that increases the levels of a substance called phenylalanine in blood. Phenylalanine hydroxylase (PAH) deficiency results in intolerance to the dietary intake of the essential amino acid phenylalanine and produces a spectrum of disorders including classic phenylketonuria (PKU), non-PKU hyperphenylalaninemia (non-PKU HPA), and variant PKU. Infants with classic PKU without treatment may develop permanent intellectual disability, and seizures, delayed development, behavioral problems and psychiatric disorders are also common.PKU is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. PAH is the primary gene in which mutations are known to cause phenylalanine hydroxylase deficiency. Its occurrence varies among ethnic groups and geographic regions worldwide. In  China, PKU occurs in 1 in 11,144 newborns,with a carrier rate of 1/35. In turks, the prevalence is 1:2,600, with a carrier rate of 1/26.	The mainstay of treatment is a low-phenylalanine diet and amino acids mixture for the forms that require treatment. The recommended maintenance level is usually between 120 and 360 micromol/L in newborns, with treatment considered essential in older patients with levels above 600 micromol/L. There is, however, no consensus concerning the level of phenylalanine above which treatment should be initiated and recommendations vary from country to country.	疾病治疗参考-安馨可2019	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Amino Acid  Metabolism Disorders	5805	PTS		BH4缺乏性高苯丙氨酸血症A型	BH4-Deficient Hyperphenylalaninemia A	AR	Hyperphenylalaninemia (HPA) due to tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4) deficiency, also known as malignant HPA is an amino acid disorder with neonatal onset that is clinically characterized by the classic manifestations of phenylketonuria (PKU) and that later on is clinically differentiated by neurologic symptoms such as microcephaly, intellectual disability, central hypotonia, delayed motor development, peripheral spasticity and seizures, that develop and persist despite an established metabolic control of plasma phenylalanine.	Treatment attempts to bring phenylalaninemia levels back to normal (diet with restricted phenylalanine intake or prescription of tetrahydrobiopterin) and to restore normal monoaminergic neurotransmission by administering precursors (L-dopa/carbidopa and 5-hydroxytryptophan).	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Amino Acid  Metabolism Disorders	2643	GCH1		BH4缺乏性高苯丙氨酸血症B型	BH4-Deficient Hyperphenylalaninemia B	AR	A disease characterized by malignant hyperphenylalaninemia due to tetrahydrobiopterin deficiency, and defective neurotransmission due to depletion of the neurotransmitters dopamine and serotonin. The principal symptoms include: psychomotor retardation, tonicity disorders, convulsions, drowsiness, irritability, abnormal movements, hyperthermia, hypersalivation, and difficulty swallowing. Some patients may present a phenotype of intermediate severity between severe hyperphenylalaninemia and mild dystonia. In this intermediate phenotype, there is marked motor delay, but no mental retardation and only minimal, if any, hyperphenylalaninemia. /Tetrahydrobiopterin deficiency, also called THB or BH4 deficiency, is a rare metabolic disorder that increases the blood levels of phenylalanine. Phenylalanine is an amino acid obtained through the diet. It is found in all proteins and in some artificial sweeteners. Tetrahydrobiopterin deficiency can be caused by mutations in one of several genes, including PTS, PCBD1, GCH1, and QDPR. These genes provide instructions for making enzymes 6-pyruvoyl-tetrahydropterin synthase, pterin-4-alpha-carbinolamine dehydratase, GTP cyclohydrolase I and quinoid-dihydropteridine reductase, respectively. Infants with tetrahydrobiopterin deficiency appear normal at birth, but medical problems ranging from mild to severe become apparent over time. Signs and symptoms of this condition can include intellectual disability, progressive problems with development, movement disorders, difficulty swallowing, seizures, behavioral problems, and an inability to control body temperature. If tetrahydrobiopterin deficiency is not treated, excess phenylalanine can build up to harmful levels in the body, causing mental retardation and other serious health problems. This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, with the overall prevalence is about 1-9/1,000,000. In patients with BH4 deficiency, levodopa replacement therapy (to increase dopamine levels) should be started in the first weeks or months of life. Patients diagnosed before age 2 years and 6 months can obtain normal executive functions and prevent development of motor and cognitive symptoms with levodopa supplementation. This finding suggests dopamine may play a critical role in ensuring stable development of executive functions in early life. Neurological symptoms are unresponsive to the classic phenylalanine-low diet.	The treatment attempts to bring phenylalaninemia levels back to normal (diet with restricted phenylalanine intake or prescription of tetrahydrobiopterin) and to restore normal monoaminergic neurotransmission by administering precursors (L-dopa/carbidopa and 5-hydroxytryptophane).	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V2	包装	1个基因对应多个疾病，需确定包装疾病		参考V1同类疾病
Metabolism-Amino Acid  Metabolism Disorders	5860	QDPR		BH4缺乏性高苯丙氨酸血症C型	BH4-Deficient Hyperphenylalaninemia C	AR	Rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by hyperphenylalaninemia and severe neurologic symptoms (malignant hyperphenylalaninemia) including axial hypotonia and truncal hypertonia, abnormal thermogenesis, and microcephaly. These signs are attributable to depletion of the neurotransmitters dopamine and serotonin, whose syntheses are controlled by tryptophan and tyrosine hydroxylases that use BH-4 as cofactor. Patients do not respond to phenylalanine-restricted diet. HPABH4C is lethal if untreated./Tetrahydrobiopterin deficiency, also called THB or BH4 deficiency, is a rare metabolic disorder that increases the blood levels of phenylalanine. Phenylalanine is an amino acid obtained through the diet. It is found in all proteins and in some artificial sweeteners. Tetrahydrobiopterin deficiency can be caused by mutations in one of several genes, including PTS, PCBD1, GCH1, and QDPR. These genes provide instructions for making enzymes 6-pyruvoyl-tetrahydropterin synthase, pterin-4-alpha-carbinolamine dehydratase, GTP cyclohydrolase I and quinoid-dihydropteridine reductase, respectively. Infants with tetrahydrobiopterin deficiency appear normal at birth, but medical problems ranging from mild to severe become apparent over time. Signs and symptoms of this condition can include intellectual disability, progressive problems with development, movement disorders, difficulty swallowing, seizures, behavioral problems, and an inability to control body temperature. If tetrahydrobiopterin deficiency is not treated, excess phenylalanine can build up to harmful levels in the body, causing mental retardation and other serious health problems. This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, with the overall prevalence is about 1-9/1,000,000. In patients with BH4 deficiency, levodopa replacement therapy (to increase dopamine levels) should be started in the first weeks or months of life. Patients diagnosed before age 2 years and 6 months can obtain normal executive functions and prevent development of motor and cognitive symptoms with levodopa supplementation. This finding suggests dopamine may play a critical role in ensuring stable development of executive functions in early life. Neurological symptoms are unresponsive to the classic phenylalanine-low diet.	The goal of the therapy is to reduce the levels of phenylalanine in the blood through treatment with BH4 usually combined with a phenylalanine restricted diet, and restore the levels of neurotransmitters in the brain by treatment with neurotransmitter precursors (L-dopa/carbidopa and 5-hydroxytryptophan). Long-acting dopamine agonists (pramipexole, ropinorole) can be used to stabilize the clinical and biochemical picture. Monoamino oxidase inhibitors (selegiline) are also useful to prolong the action of neurotransmitter precursors. Administration of methylfolate or folinic acid can restore cerebral folate levels.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1				参考V1同类疾病
Metabolism-Amino Acid  Metabolism Disorders	5092	PCBD1		BH4缺乏性高苯丙氨酸血症D型	BH4-Deficient Hyperphenylalaninemia D	AR	An autosomal recessive disease characterized by primapterinuria, a variant form of hyperphenylalaninemia defined by increased excretion of 7-substituted pterins in the urine. Patients with primapterinuria show an increased ratio of neopterin to biopterin in the urine, excretion of subnormal levels of biopterins, and normal levels of biogenic amines in cerebrospinal fluid. Neurologic signs are mild, present in the neonatal period only, and include hypotonia, delayed motor development and tremor./Tetrahydrobiopterin deficiency, also called THB or BH4 deficiency, is a rare metabolic disorder that increases the blood levels of phenylalanine. Phenylalanine is an amino acid obtained through the diet. It is found in all proteins and in some artificial sweeteners. Tetrahydrobiopterin deficiency can be caused by mutations in one of several genes, including PTS, PCBD1, GCH1, and QDPR. These genes provide instructions for making enzymes 6-pyruvoyl-tetrahydropterin synthase, pterin-4-alpha-carbinolamine dehydratase, GTP cyclohydrolase I and quinoid-dihydropteridine reductase, respectively. Infants with tetrahydrobiopterin deficiency appear normal at birth, but medical problems ranging from mild to severe become apparent over time. Signs and symptoms of this condition can include intellectual disability, progressive problems with development, movement disorders, difficulty swallowing, seizures, behavioral problems, and an inability to control body temperature. If tetrahydrobiopterin deficiency is not treated, excess phenylalanine can build up to harmful levels in the body, causing mental retardation and other serious health problems. This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, with the overall prevalence is about 1-9/1,000,000. In patients with BH4 deficiency, levodopa replacement therapy (to increase dopamine levels) should be started in the first weeks or months of life. Patients diagnosed before age 2 years and 6 months can obtain normal executive functions and prevent development of motor and cognitive symptoms with levodopa supplementation. This finding suggests dopamine may play a critical role in ensuring stable development of executive functions in early life. Neurological symptoms are unresponsive to the classic phenylalanine-low diet.	In addition to other findings, patients may develop hypomagnesemia with renal magnesium loss, and awareness may allow medical management (magnesium supplementation), which has been reported as clinically beneficial	疾病治疗参考-安馨可2019	不需解读	V2	包装	1个基因对应1个疾病		参考V1同类疾病
Metabolism-Amino Acid  Metabolism Disorders	56521	DNAJC12		轻度非BH4缺乏性高苯丙氨酸血症	Mild non-BH4-deficient Hyperphenylalaninemia	AR	Mild non-BH4-deficient hyperphenylalaninemia (HPANBH4) is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by increased serum phenylalanine usually detected by newborn screening and associated with highly variable neurologic defects, including movement abnormalities and intellectual disability. Laboratory analysis shows dopamine and serotonin deficiencies in the cerebrospinal fluid, and normal BH4 metabolism. Evidence suggests that treatment with neurotransmitter precursors can lead to clinical improvement or even prevent the neurologic defects if started in infancy.	The mainstay of treatment is a low-phenylalanine diet and amino acids mixture for the forms that require treatment. The recommended maintenance level is usually between 120 and 360 micromol/L in newborns, with treatment considered essential in older patients with levels above 600 micromol/L. There is, however, no consensus concerning the level of phenylalanine above which treatment should be initiated and recommendations vary from country to country.	疾病治疗参考-PAH	樊春娜	V2	包装	1个基因对应1个疾病		OMIM# 617384
Metabolism-Amino Acid  Metabolism Disorders	1373	CPS1	Carbamoylphosphate Synthetase Deficiency	氨甲酰磷酸合成酶I缺乏症	Carbamoylphosphate Synthetase I Deficiency	AR	Carbamoyl phosphate synthetase I deficiency is an inherited disorder that causes ammonia to accumulate in the blood (hyperammonemia).In the first few days of life, infants with carbamoyl phosphate synthetase I deficiency typically exhibit the effects of hyperammonemia, which may include unusual sleepiness, poorly regulated breathing rate or body temperature, unwillingness to feed, vomiting after feeding, unusual body movements, seizures, or coma. Affected individuals who survive the newborn period may experience recurrence of these symptoms if diet is not carefully managed or if they experience infections or other stressors. They may also have delayed development and intellectual disability.In some people with carbamoyl phosphate synthetase I deficiency, signs and symptoms may be less severe and appear later in life.Carbamoyl phosphate synthetase I deficiency is a rare disorder; its overall incidence is unknown. Researchers in Japan have estimated that it occurs in 1 in 800,000 newborns in that country.Patients presenting with a hyperammonemic coma must be treated immediately in a tertiary care center where plasma ammonia levels must be lowered (by hemodialysis or hemofiltration methods), ammonia scavenger therapy implemented, catabolism reversed (through glucose and lipid infusions) and special care taken to reduce the risk of neurological damage (EEG surveillance and treatment of seizures, if necessary). A life-long diet low in natural protein, supplements of essential amino acids, citrulline and arginine as needed, nitrogen scavenger therapy (sodium benzoate and/or sodium phenylbutyrate) and appropriate nutritional support to avoid catabolic stress are recommended. Early liver transplantation for those with neonatal-onset CPS1D can correct metabolic abnormalities but does not reverse any neurological complications. Valproic acid should be avoided.Prognosis depends on disease severity but is considered bleak in patients with early neonatal disease. With early diagnosis and optimal treatment started without any delay, the prognosis improves. Episodes of hyperammonemic coma of long duration are associated with a poor neurological outlook.	Patients presenting with a hyperammonemic coma must be treated immediately in a tertiary care center where plasma ammonia levels must be lowered (by hemodialysis or hemofiltration methods), ammonia scavenger therapy implemented, catabolism reversed (through glucose and lipid infusions) and special care taken to reduce the risk of neurological damage (EEG surveillance and treatment of seizures, if necessary). A life-long diet low in natural protein, supplements of essential amino acids, citrulline and arginine as needed, nitrogen scavenger therapy (sodium benzoate and/or sodium or glycerol phenylbutyrate) and appropriate nutritional support to avoid catabolic stress are recommended. Early liver transplantation for those with neonatal-onset CPS1D can correct metabolic abnormalities but does not reverse any neurological complications. Valproic acid should be avoided.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Amino Acid  Metabolism Disorders	593	BCKDHA	Maple Syrup Urine Disease	枫糖尿病Ia型	Maple Syrup Urine Disease,type Ia	AR	Maple syrup urine disease is an inherited disorder in which the body is unable to process certain protein building blocks (amino acids) properly. Beginning in early infancy, this condition is characterized by poor feeding, vomiting, lack of energy (lethargy), and developmental delay. If untreated, maple syrup urine disease can lead to seizures, coma, and death.Maple syrup urine disease is often classified by its pattern of signs and symptoms. The most common and severe form of the disease is the classic type, which becomes apparent soon after birth. Variant forms of the disorder become apparent later in infancy or childhood and are typically milder, but they still involve developmental delay and other medical problems if not treated.Maple syrup urine disease affects an estimated 1 in 185,000 infants worldwide.Classic maple syrup urine disease (MSUD) is the most severe and probably commonest form of MSUD characterized by a maple syrup odor in the cerumen at birth, poor feeding, lethargy and focal dystonia, followed by progressive encephalopathy and central respiratory failure if untreated.	Dietary measures (eg, leucine restriction, high-calorie branched chain amino acid-free formulas, isoleucine and valine supplementation) combined with careful surveillance can be beneficial to prevent decompensation and minimize disease sequelae; specific treatment in times of metabolic decompensation can reduce morbidity and mortaility; Liver transplantation is effective for classic MSUD; Specific monitoring is indicated in pregnancy	疾病治疗参考-安馨可2019	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Amino Acid  Metabolism Disorders	594	BCKDHB		枫糖尿病Ib型	Maple Syrup Urine Disease,type Ib	AR	Maple syrup urine disease is an inherited disorder in which the body is unable to process certain protein building blocks (amino acids) properly. Beginning in early infancy, this condition is characterized by poor feeding, vomiting, lack of energy (lethargy), and developmental delay. If untreated, maple syrup urine disease can lead to seizures, coma, and death.Maple syrup urine disease is often classified by its pattern of signs and symptoms. The most common and severe form of the disease is the classic type, which becomes apparent soon after birth. Variant forms of the disorder become apparent later in infancy or childhood and are typically milder, but they still involve developmental delay and other medical problems if not treated.Maple syrup urine disease affects an estimated 1 in 185,000 infants worldwide.Classic maple syrup urine disease (MSUD) is the most severe and probably commonest form of MSUD characterized by a maple syrup odor in the cerumen at birth, poor feeding, lethargy and focal dystonia, followed by progressive encephalopathy and central respiratory failure if untreated.	Dietary measures (eg, leucine restriction, high-calorie branched chain amino acid-free formulas, isoleucine and valine supplementation) combined with careful surveillance can be beneficial to prevent decompensation and minimize disease sequelae; specific treatment in times of metabolic decompensation can reduce morbidity and mortaility; Liver transplantation is effective for classic MSUD; Specific monitoring is indicated in pregnancy	疾病治疗参考-安馨可2019	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Amino Acid  Metabolism Disorders	1629	DBT		枫糖尿病II型	Maple Syrup Urine Disease,type II	AR	Maple syrup urine disease is an inherited disorder in which the body is unable to process certain protein building blocks (amino acids) properly. Beginning in early infancy, this condition is characterized by poor feeding, vomiting, lack of energy (lethargy), and developmental delay. If untreated, maple syrup urine disease can lead to seizures, coma, and death.Maple syrup urine disease is often classified by its pattern of signs and symptoms. The most common and severe form of the disease is the classic type, which becomes apparent soon after birth. Variant forms of the disorder become apparent later in infancy or childhood and are typically milder, but they still involve developmental delay and other medical problems if not treated.Maple syrup urine disease affects an estimated 1 in 185,000 infants worldwide.Classic maple syrup urine disease (MSUD) is the most severe and probably commonest form of MSUD characterized by a maple syrup odor in the cerumen at birth, poor feeding, lethargy and focal dystonia, followed by progressive encephalopathy and central respiratory failure if untreated.	Dietary measures (eg, leucine restriction, high-calorie branched chain amino acid-free formulas, isoleucine and valine supplementation) combined with careful surveillance can be beneficial to prevent decompensation and minimize disease sequelae; specific treatment in times of metabolic decompensation can reduce morbidity and mortaility; Liver transplantation is effective for classic MSUD; Specific monitoring is indicated in pregnancy	疾病治疗参考-安馨可2019	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Amino Acid  Metabolism Disorders	152926	PPM1K		温和变异型枫糖尿病	Mild Variant Maple Syrup Urine Disease	AR	The mild variant of MSUD is characterized by increased plasma levels of branched-chain amino acids (BCAA) apparent at birth. Treatment with a low-protein diet free of BCAA can result in normal psychomotor development and lack of metabolic episodes; however, plasma levels of BCAA may remain elevated (summary by Oyarzabal et al., 2013).	Dietary measures (eg, leucine restriction, high-calorie branched chain amino acid-free formulas, isoleucine and valine supplementation) combined with careful surveillance can be beneficial to prevent decompensation and minimize disease sequelae; specific treatment in times of metabolic decompensation can reduce morbidity and mortaility; Liver transplantation is effective for classic MSUD; Specific monitoring is indicated in pregnancy	疾病治疗参考-同大类	樊春娜	V2	包装，没位点，对症解读	1个基因对应1个疾病		参考V1同类疾病
Metabolism-Amino Acid  Metabolism Disorders	275	AMT	Glycine encephalopathy	甘氨酸脑病	Glycine encephalopathy	AR	Three forms of GE have been recognized based on the age of onset: neonatal, infantile and atypical glycine encephalopathy . Most patients have the life-threatening neonatal form and present mild to severe disease manifestations starting within a few days of birth including lethargy or even coma, hypotonia, hiccups, myoclonic jerks, and breathing/swallowing disorders, with subsequent intellectual deficit, spasticity and intractable seizures. A smaller proportion of patients show developmental delay and generally mild seizures in the infantile period, while others do not develop symptoms until late infancy or adulthood. Although patients usually have either a mild or severe course, there is a continuous clinical spectrum. Some patients develop choreic movements. Atypical glycine encephalopathy indicates hyperglycinemic patients whose clinical presentations are different from those of neonatal or infantile form, for example, transient or late-onset hyperglycinemia and patients with spastic paraparesis.	The following tests should be used to guide treatment: brain MRI, EEG, and developmental and neurological assessment. There are only supportive and symptomatic measures for GE including antiepileptics for seizure control, placement of a gastrostomy tube for swallowing disorders, and treatment for gastroesophageal reflux. Sodium benzoate is used to reduce plasma glycine levels. NMDA receptor antagonists may ameliorate neurological symptoms although it remains to be established whether they improve long term outcome.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Amino Acid  Metabolism Disorders	2731	GLDC		甘氨酸脑病	Glycine encephalopathy	AR	Three forms of GE have been recognized based on the age of onset: neonatal, infantile and atypical glycine encephalopathy . Most patients have the life-threatening neonatal form and present mild to severe disease manifestations starting within a few days of birth including lethargy or even coma, hypotonia, hiccups, myoclonic jerks, and breathing/swallowing disorders, with subsequent intellectual deficit, spasticity and intractable seizures. A smaller proportion of patients show developmental delay and generally mild seizures in the infantile period, while others do not develop symptoms until late infancy or adulthood. Although patients usually have either a mild or severe course, there is a continuous clinical spectrum. Some patients develop choreic movements. Atypical glycine encephalopathy indicates hyperglycinemic patients whose clinical presentations are different from those of neonatal or infantile form, for example, transient or late-onset hyperglycinemia and patients with spastic paraparesis.	The following tests should be used to guide treatment: brain MRI, EEG, and developmental and neurological assessment. There are only supportive and symptomatic measures for GE including antiepileptics for seizure control, placement of a gastrostomy tube for swallowing disorders, and treatment for gastroesophageal reflux. Sodium benzoate is used to reduce plasma glycine levels. NMDA receptor antagonists may ameliorate neurological symptoms although it remains to be established whether they improve long term outcome.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Amino Acid  Metabolism Disorders	2653	GCSH		甘氨酸脑病	Glycine encephalopathy	AR	Three forms of GE have been recognized based on the age of onset: neonatal, infantile and atypical glycine encephalopathy . Most patients have the life-threatening neonatal form and present mild to severe disease manifestations starting within a few days of birth including lethargy or even coma, hypotonia, hiccups, myoclonic jerks, and breathing/swallowing disorders, with subsequent intellectual deficit, spasticity and intractable seizures. A smaller proportion of patients show developmental delay and generally mild seizures in the infantile period, while others do not develop symptoms until late infancy or adulthood. Although patients usually have either a mild or severe course, there is a continuous clinical spectrum. Some patients develop choreic movements. Atypical glycine encephalopathy indicates hyperglycinemic patients whose clinical presentations are different from those of neonatal or infantile form, for example, transient or late-onset hyperglycinemia and patients with spastic paraparesis.	The following tests should be used to guide treatment: brain MRI, EEG, and developmental and neurological assessment. There are only supportive and symptomatic measures for GE including antiepileptics for seizure control, placement of a gastrostomy tube for swallowing disorders, and treatment for gastroesophageal reflux. Sodium benzoate is used to reduce plasma glycine levels. NMDA receptor antagonists may ameliorate neurological symptoms although it remains to be established whether they improve long term outcome.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V2	包装，没位点，对症解读	1个基因对应1个疾病		参考V1同类疾病
Metabolism-Amino Acid  Metabolism Disorders	4143	MAT1A	Hypermethioninemia	高蛋氨酸血症	Hypermethioninemia	AR	Hypermethioninemia is an excess of methionine in the blood. This condition can occur when methionine is not broken down (metabolized) properly in the body.People with hypermethioninemia often do not show any symptoms. Some individuals with hypermethioninemia exhibit intellectual disability and other neurological problems; delays in motor skills such as standing or walking; sluggishness; muscle weakness; liver problems; unusual facial features; and their breath, sweat, or urine may have a smell resembling boiled cabbage.Hypermethioninemia can occur with other metabolic disorders, such as homocystinuria, tyrosinemia and galactosemia, which also involve the faulty breakdown of particular molecules. Treatment consists of dietary protein restriction. Methionine adenosyltransferase (MAT) I/III deficiency which is an inborn error of metabolism resulting in isolated hypermethioninemia is caused by mutation in MAT1A gene. The overall incidence of autosomal dominant (AD) and autosomal recessive (AR) MAT I/III deficiency is estimated at 1 in 26,000 ~ 105,000 newborns. AD MAT I/III deficiency is more common (58–100% of probands) than the AR type. The AD type has been considered a benign condition, although its long-term prognosis remains unknown. However, some patients with the AR type may have developmental delay, intellectual disability or brain demyelination. The prevalence is unknown.	While the disorders frequently do not have severe sequelae, and therapy may not be required for many individuals, in some, dietary measures (eg, methionine restriction) may be beneficial; AdoMet therapy has also been described as beneficial.	疾病治疗参考-安馨可2018	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Amino Acid  Metabolism Disorders	191	AHCY		S-腺苷高半胱氨酸水解酶缺乏性高甲硫氨酸血症	Hypermethioninemia with S-Adenosylhomocysteine Hydrolase Deficiency	AR	This syndrome is characterised by psychomotor delay and severe myopathy (hypotonia, absent tendon reflexes and delayed myelination) from birth, associated with hypermethioninaemia and elevated serum creatine kinase levels. It has been described in three unrelated patients. Transmission appears to be autosomal recessive.	Whilst there is little evidence to support specific treatment strategies, the current consensus is on a methionine-restricted diet (with methionine-free amino acid mixture supplementation), which can decrease and sometimes even normalize plasma AdoMet and AdoHcy. Subsequent close clinical and biochemical monitoring seem mandatory. Phosphatidylcholine, creatine and cysteine supplementation may be beneficial. Liver transplantation has resulted in clinical and biochemical improvement in a single case.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V2	包装	1个基因对应1个疾病		疾病治疗参考-(GARD) Genetic and Rare Diseases Information Center 
Metabolism-Amino Acid  Metabolism Disorders	132	ADK		腺苷激酶缺乏性高甲硫氨酸血症	Hypermethioninemia due to Adenosine Kinase Deficiency	AR	Hypermethioninemia due to adenosine kinase deficiency is an autosomal recessive inborn error of metabolism characterized by global developmental delay, early-onset seizures, mild dysmorphic features, and characteristic biochemical anomalies, including persistent hypermethioninemia with increased levels of S-adenosylmethionine (AdoMet) and S-adenosylhomocysteine (AdoHcy); homocysteine is typically normal	Genetic knowledge may be beneficial related to issues such as selection of optimal supportive care, informed medical decision-making, prognostic considerations, and avoidance of unnecessary testing	疾病治疗参考-安馨可2019	不需解读	V2	包装	1个基因对应1个疾病		疾病治疗参考- Adenosine Kinase Deficiency: Report and Review (PMID: 30477030 DOI: 10.1055/s-0038-1676053 )
Metabolism-Amino Acid  Metabolism Disorders	27232	GNMT		甘氨酸N-甲基转移酶缺乏症	Glycine N-Methyltransferase Deficiency	AR	The only clinical abnormalities in patients with this deficiency are mild hepatomegaly and chronic elevation of serum transaminases.	Genetic knowledge may be beneficial related to issues such as selection of optimal supportive care, informed medical decision-making, prognostic considerations, and avoidance of unnecessary testing	疾病治疗参考-安馨可2019	不需解读	V2	包装	1个基因对应1个疾病		疾病简介参考-(GARD) Genetic and Rare Diseases Information Center <br/>疾病治疗参考-NORD (National Organization for Rare Disorders)  +质谱新筛疾病指导手册
Metabolism-Amino Acid  Metabolism Disorders	10166	SLC25A15	Hyperornithinemia-Hyperammonemia-Homocitrullinuria Syndrome	高鸟氨酸血症-高氨血症-同型瓜氨酸尿症	Hyperornithinemia-Hyperammonemia-Homocitrullinuria Syndrome	AR	Hyperornithinemia-hyperammonemia-homocitrullinuria (HHH) syndrome is characterized by variable clinical presentation and age of onset.An infant with ornithine translocase deficiency may be lacking in energy (lethargic) or refuse to eat, or have poorly controlled breathing or body temperature. Some babies with this disorder may experience seizures or unusual body movements, or go into a coma.In most affected individuals, signs and symptoms of ornithine translocase deficiency do not appear until later in life. Later-onset forms of ornithine translocase deficiency are usually less severe than the infantile form.Ornithine translocase deficiency is a very rare disorder. Fewer than 100 affected individuals have been reported worldwide.	Treatment involves the adherence to a low protein diet along with citrulline or arginine supplementation. In resistant cases, sodium benzoate and/or sodium or glycerol phenylbutyrate may be necessary for control of plasma ammonia levels. Patients should be monitored during times of stress (e.g. pregnancy, surgery, intercurrent infections) and when taking certain medications (i.e. corticosteroids) as they can trigger an episode of hyperammonemia. Hyperammonemic coma is treated in a tertiary care center where plasma ammonia levels must be lowered (by hemodialysis or hemofiltration), ammonia scavenger therapy implemented, catabolism reversed (with glucose and lipid infusions) and special care taken to reduce the risk of neurological damage.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Amino Acid  Metabolism Disorders	5625	PRODH	Hyperprolinemia	高脯胺酸血症1型	Hyperprolinemia type I	AR	Hyperprolinaemia type I is an inborn error of proline metabolism characterised by elevated levels of proline in the plasma and urine. The prevalence is unknown. The disorder is generally considered to be benign but associations with renal abnormalities, epileptic seizures, and other neurological manifestations, as well as certain forms of schizophrenia have been reported.	Treatment of the hyperprolinemia seen in HPI has included dietary therapy such as the restriction of proline.	疾病治疗参考-PMID24931297	樊春娜	V1	包装，没位点，对症解读		2022.6.14，王星修改疾病分类，“Hyperprolinemia type”改为“Hyperprolinemia”
Metabolism-Amino Acid  Metabolism Disorders	8659	ALDH4A1		高脯胺酸血症2型	Hyperprolinemia type II	AR	Hyperprolinemia type 2 is an autosomal recessive proline metabolism disorder due to pyroline-5-carboxylate dehydrogenase deficiency. The condition is often benign but clinical signs may include seizures, intellectual deficit and mild developmental delay.	The seizures associated with the rare inherited disorder HPII are usually precipitated by an infection during childhood. The control of seizures in HPII is clearly important. It is necessary to protect against febrile convulsions and status epilepticus. As in HPI, dietary therapy is unable to significantly reduce plasma proline level in HPII. P5C is a unique endogenous vitamin antagonist. The inactivation of vitamin B6 by P5C may contribute to seizures in HPII, which are so far unexplained. The evidence for this largely rests on the diagnosis of HPII and vitamin B6 deficiency in a well-nourished child with seizures. 	疾病治疗参考-PMID24931297	樊春娜	V2	包装	1个基因对应1个疾病	2022.6.14，王星修改疾病分类，“Hyperprolinemia type”改为“Hyperprolinemia”	参考V1同类疾病
Metabolism-Amino Acid  Metabolism Disorders	875	CBS	Homocystinuria	胱硫醚β合成酶缺乏性高胱氨酸尿症	Homocystinuria Due to Cystathionine Beta-Synthase Deficiency	AR	Homocystinuria caused by cystathionine β-synthase (CBS) deficiency is characterized by developmental delay/intellectual disability, ectopia lentis and/or severe myopia, skeletal abnormalities (excessive height and length of the limbs), and thromboembolism. Other features that may occur include: seizures, psychiatric problems, extrapyramidal signs such as dystonia, hypopigmentation, malar flush, livedo reticularis, and pancreatitis.Thromboembolism, affecting both large and small arteries and veins, is the most striking cause of morbidity and mortality.	If the disease is diagnosed in the newborn infant, as ideally it should be, the aim of treatment must be to ensure the development of normal intelligence and prevent the development of other complications. Later, itaims at preventing life-endangering thromboembolic events and further escalation of the complications. There are currently three recognized modalities of treatment. For those that are pyridoxine responsive, the treatment includes pyridoxine in pharmacological doses in combination with folic acid and vitamin B12 supplements. In pyridoxine nonresponsive individuals, the recommended treatment is a methionine-restricted, cystine-supplemented diet in combination with the pyridoxine, folic acid and vitamin B12 supplementation. Betaine anhydrous is a methyl donor that may lead to lowering of homocysteine levels in these individuals and can be used as an adjunct to such a diet. It obtained EU marketing authorization as an orphan drug for the treatment of homocystinuria in 2007.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Amino Acid  Metabolism Disorders	4524	MTHFR		亚甲基四氢叶酸还原酶缺乏性高胱氨酸尿症	Homocystinuria due to MTHFR deficiency	AR	Homocystinuria is an inherited disorder in which the body is unable to process certain building blocks of proteins (amino acids) properly. The most common form of homocystinuria is characterized by nearsightedness (myopia), dislocation of the lens at the front of the eye, an increased risk of abnormal blood clotting, and brittle bones that are prone to fracture (osteoporosis) or other skeletal abnormalities. Some affected individuals also have developmental delay and learning problems.The signs and symptoms of homocystinuria typically develop within the first year of life, although some people with a mild form of the disease may not develop features until later in childhood or adulthood.The most common form of homocystinuria affects at least 1 in 200,000 to 335,000 people worldwide.	Treatment of severe deficiency revolves around the administration of high-dose betaine, in combination with methionine, pyridoxine, vitamin B12 and folic or folinic acid supplements.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Amino Acid  Metabolism Disorders	4548	MTR		高胱氨酸尿症伴巨幼红细胞贫血CblG型	Homocystinuria-Megaloblastic Anemia CblG type	AR	Homocystinuria without methylmalonic aciduria manifests mainly in early childhood with failure to thrive, megaloblastic anemia, developmental delay, hypotonia, seizures and cerebral atrophy with white matter abnormalities. Some patients may have an acute expression in the first few months of life, with vomiting, poor feeding and lethargy. Patients develop homocystinuria, hyperhomocysteinemia and, sometimes, hypomethioninemia. Presentation in adulthood with ataxia, dementia or psychosis has been observed in cblG.	Treatment is based on daily intramuscular injections of 1 mg hydroxycobalamin (OHCbl), tapering the frequency of injections over time to one dose, one to three times a week. A few patients with cblG have required additional treatment with folates and betaine.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V2	包装	1个基因对应多个疾病，需确定包装疾病		参考V1同类疾病
Metabolism-Amino Acid  Metabolism Disorders	4552	MTRR		同型半胱氨酸尿症伴巨幼细胞贫血CblE型	Homocystinuria-megaloblastic anemia CblE type	AR	An autosomal recessive inborn error of metabolism resulting from defects in the cobalamin-dependent pathway that converts homocysteine to methionine. It causes delayed psychomotor development, megaloblastic anemia, homocystinuria, and hypomethioninemia. Cells from patients with HMAE fail to incorporate methyltetrahydrofolate into methionine in whole cells, but cell extracts show normal methionine synthase activity in the presence of a reducing agent.	Treatment is based on daily intramuscular injections of 1 mg hydroxycobalamin (OHCbl), tapering the frequency of injections over time to one dose, one to three times a week. A few patients with cblG have required additional treatment with folates and betaine.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V2	包装	1个基因对应多个疾病，需确定包装疾病		参考V1同类疾病
Metabolism-Amino Acid  Metabolism Disorders	10165	SLC25A13	Citrullinemia	希特林蛋白缺乏症	Citrullinemia, Type II, Neonatal-Onset	AR	A form of citrullinemia type 2 with neonatal onset, characterized by suppression of the bile flow, hepatic fibrosis, low birth weight, growth retardation, hypoproteinemia, variable liver dysfunction. Neonatal intrahepatic cholestasis due to citrin deficiency is generally not severe and symptoms disappear by one year of age with an appropriate diet. Years or even decades later, however, some individuals develop the characteristic features of citrullinemia type 2 with neuropsychiatric symptoms.	Supplement diet with fat-soluble vitamins and use of lactose-free and medium-chain triglyceride (MCT)-enriched formula.Periodic measurement of plasma concentration of ammonia and citrulline, and serum concentration of PSTI for all phenotypes associated with citrin deficiency. Follow up of children who have had NICCD for the laboratory.Agents/circumstances to avoid: Low-protein high-carbohydrate diets; glycerol and fructose infusions for brain edema; alcohol; acetaminophen and rabeprozole.	疾病治疗参考-安馨可2019	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Amino Acid  Metabolism Disorders	445	ASS1		瓜氨酸血症1型	Citrullinemia,Type I	AR	Type I citrullinemia (also known as classic citrullinemia), an autosomal recessive disease characterized primarily by elevated serum and urine citrulline levels. Ammonia intoxication is another manifestation. It is a disorder of the urea cycle, usually becomes evident in the first few days of life. Affected infants typically appear normal at birth, but as ammonia builds up, they experience a progressive lack of energy (lethargy), poor feeding, vomiting, seizures, and loss of consciousness. Some affected individuals develop serious liver problems. The health problems associated with type I citrullinemia are life-threatening in many cases. Less commonly, a milder form of type I citrullinemia can develop later in childhood or adulthood. This later-onset form is associated with intense headaches, blind spots (scotomas), problems with balance and muscle coordination (ataxia), and lethargy. Citrullinemia type I has been estimated to occur in 1:57,000 births. The disease is caused by mutation in the ASS1 gene, which encodes argininosuccinate synthetase. Acute management of hyperammonemia involves rapidly lowering plasma ammonia concentration using pharmacologic nitrogen scavenger therapy (sodium benzoate, sodium phenylacetate, and arginine) or hemodialysis, if scavenger therapy fails; reversal of catabolism via intravenous glucose infusion and intralipids or protein-free enteral nutrition, if tolerated; and control of intracranial pressure.Chronic management involves lifelong dietary management to maintain plasma ammonia concentration lower than100 µmol/L and near-normal plasma glutamine concentration; oral administration of sodium phenylbutyrate or glycerol phenylbutyrate; L-carnitine to prevent systemic hypocarnitinemia. Liver transplantation, the only known cure for CTLN1, is best performed between age three months (and/or attainment of 5 kg body weight) and one year to decrease complications and improve survival; liver transplantation does not reverse any neurologic sequelae present at the time of transplant.	To prevent decompensation, medical therapy (eg, with sodium phenylbutyrate, L-carnitine) and dietary management (including avoidance of excess protein) can be beneficial, especially in high-risk states such as during infectious episodes; In the acute state, control of hyperammonemia (eg, with sodium benzoate/phenylacetate or emergent hemodialysis, with dietary measures to prevent catabolism) with steps to prevent increased intracranial pressure can be beneficial; Avoidance of certain agents (eg, valproate) is warranted due to potential adverse events	疾病治疗参考-安馨可2019	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Amino Acid  Metabolism Disorders	435	ASL	Argininosuccinic aciduria	精氨酸琥珀酸尿症	Argininosuccinic aciduria	AR	Argininosuccinic aciduria (ASA) is a disorder of urea cycle metabolism most commonly characterized by either a severe, neonatal-onset form that manifests with hyperammonemia accompanied with vomiting, hypothermia, lethargy and poor feeding in the first few days of life, or late-onset forms (any age outside the newborn period) that manifest with stress or infection-induced episodic hyperammonemia or, in some, behavioral abnormalities and/or learning disabilities. Patients often manifest liver dysfunction. ASA can have a variable clinical picture with either a neonatal-onset or a late-onset (at any age outside the newborn period). Neonates with severe neonatal-onset ASA usually appear normal during the first 24-48 hours after birth but within a few days present with severe hyperammonemia manifesting with lethargy, somnolence, refusal to feed, vomiting, tachypnea and respiratory alkalosis. If untreated, worsening lethargy, seizures, coma and death may occur. Late-onset ASA is usually triggered by an acute infection, stress or after high protein intake. A presentation of late-onset cognitive impairment or learning disabilities in the absence of hyperammonemic episodes has also been reported. Some patients can be asymptomatic. Long-term complications associated with both forms of ASA include chronic hepatomegaly, liver dysfunction (fibrosis or cirrhosis), neurocognitive deficits (i.e. cognitive impairment, seizures, and developmental delay), brittle hair (i.e. trichorrhexis nodosa), hypokalemia and arterial hypertension.	During an acute hyperammonemic episode, oral proteins must be avoided (for 24-48 hours' maximum) and intravenous (I.V.) lipids, glucose and insulin (if needed) should be given to promote anabolism. I.V. nitrogen scavenging therapy (with sodium benzoate and/or sodium phenylacetate/phenylbutyrate) should normalize ammonia levels, but if unsuccessful or in case of severe hyperammonemic encephalopathy, hemodialysis is recommended. Long-term management involves dietary protein restriction as well as arginine supplementation; in those with frequent episodes of metabolic decompensation or with hyperammonemia even when following a protein-restricted diet, daily oral nitrogen scavenging therapy (sodium benzoate and/or sodium or glycerol phenylbutyrate) may be successful. Orthotopic liver transplantation offers long-term relief of hyperammonemia but does not seem to sufficiently correct neurological complications. Arterial hypertension can be treated by restoring nitric oxide deficiency.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Amino Acid  Metabolism Disorders	383	ARG1	Argininemia	精氨酸酶缺乏症	Argininemia	AR	Arginase deficiency, a rare autosomal recessive disorder of ureagenesis， has classically been the phenotypic exception within urea cycle disorders. The disease in untreated individuals is characterized by episodic hyperammonemia of variable degree that is infrequently severe enough to be life threatening or to cause death. Most commonly, birth and early childhood are normal. Untreated individuals have slowing of linear growth at age one to three years, followed by development of spasticity, plateauing of cognitive development, and subsequent loss of developmental milestones. If untreated, arginase deficiency usually progresses to severe spasticity, loss of ambulation, complete loss of bowel and bladder control, and severe intellectual disability. The disease is caused by a defect in the hydrolysis of arginine to urea and ornithine by the enzyme arginase Ⅰ encoded by ARG1 gene. It has an estimated incidence of 1/350,000 - 1/1,000,000. Early metabolic investigation is very important to reach a diagnosis and better outcome.	Dietary and medical therapy (eg, with low-protein, arginine restricted diet, sodium benzoate), may be beneficial; Individuals with more severe and earlier presentations (similar to that of other urea cycle disorders) have been reported, and may benefit from similar care to prevent and acute sequelae; Individuals with urea cycle disorders may demonstrate sensitivity to certain agents, such as valproate	疾病治疗参考-安馨可2019	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Amino Acid  Metabolism Disorders	2184	FAH	Tyrosinemia Type	酪氨酸血症1型	Tyrosinemia Type I	AR	Tyrosinemia type 1 (HTI) is an inborn error of tyrosine catabolism caused by defective activity of fumarylacetoacetate hydrolase (FAH) and is characterized by progressive liver disease, renal tubular dysfunction, porphyria-like crises and a dramatic improvement in prognosis following treatment with nitisinone. HT1 is clinically heterogenous. Symptoms may start during the first few months (acute type), in second half of the first year (subacute type) or in the following years up to adulthood (chronic type). In the acute type, manifestations of hepatic failure predominate (bleeding diathesis, hypoglycemia, ascites etc) with frequent sepsis and rapid deterioration. Mild proximal tubular disease is usually present. Subacute type manifests a similar but less severe clinical picture presenting usually with hepatomegaly or hypophosphatemic rickets (due to tubular dysfunction). Intercurrent illness may precipitate hepatic crisis. Chronic type presents with hepatomegaly secondary to cirrhosis and often tubulopathy, leading to rickets and renal failure. Neurological crises are infrequent presenting symptoms; however they can complicate any type of the disease when untreated. The crises resemble those of acute intermittent porphyria, manifesting with painful parasthesias (causing patients to assume ophisthotonic position, self mutilation), autonomic signs (hypertension, tachycardia, ileus) and respiratory decompensation. All patients stand a high risk of developing hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) secondary to cirrhosis.	Dietary (controlled intake of phenylalanine and tyrosine) and medical (eg, nitsinone) treatment can be beneficial, and may reduce risks related to manifestations (eg, hepatocellular carcinoma) that are part of the natural history in untreated individuals; Some individuals require liver transplantation	疾病治疗参考-安馨可2018	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Amino Acid  Metabolism Disorders	6898	TAT		酪氨酸血症2型	Tyrosinemia Type II	AR	An inborn error of metabolism characterized by elevations of tyrosine in the blood and urine, and oculocutaneous manifestations. Typical features include palmoplantar keratosis, painful corneal ulcers, and mental retardation.This form of the disorder can affect the eyes, skin, and mental development. Symptoms often begin in early childhood and include excessive tearing, abnormal sensitivity to light (photophobia), eye pain and redness, and painful skin lesions on the palms and soles. About half of individuals with type II tyrosinemia are also mentally challenged.	Management revolves around dietary restriction of phenylalanine and tyrosine. Oral retinoids may also be administered for treatment of the skin lesions.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Amino Acid  Metabolism Disorders	3242	HPD		酪氨酸血症3型	Tyrosinemia Type III	AR	Tyrosinemia type 3 is an inborn error of tyrosine metabolism characterised by mild hypertyrosinemia and increased urinary excretion of 4-hydroxyphenylpyruvate, 4-hydroxyphenyllactate and 4-hydroxyphenylacetate. Patients with this disorder have mild mental retardation and/or convulsions, with the absence of liver damage.	Despite the variable clinical picture, patients with tyrosinemia type 3 are recommended to follow a phenylalanine- and tyrosine-restricted diet.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Amino Acid  Metabolism Disorders	5009	OTC	Ornithine Transcarbamylase Deficiency	鸟氨酸氨甲酰转移酶缺乏症	Ornithine Transcarbamylase Deficiency	XL	Ornithine transcarbamylase (OTC) deficiency can occur as a severe neonatal-onset disease in males (but rarely in females) and as a late-onset (partial) disease in males and females. Males with severe neonatal-onset OTC deficiency are typically normal at birth but become symptomatic from hyperammonemia on day two to three of life and are usually catastrophically ill by the time they come to medical attention. After successful treatment of neonatal hyperammonemic coma these infants can easily become hyperammonemic again despite appropriate treatment; they typically require liver transplant by age six months to improve quality of life. Males and heterozygous females with late-onset (partial) OTC deficiency can present from infancy to later childhood, adolescence, or adulthood. No matter how mild the disease, a hyperammonemic crisis can be precipitated by stressors and become a life-threatening event at any age and in any situation in life. For all individuals with OTC deficiency, typical neuropsychological complications include developmental delay, learning disabilities, intellectual disability, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), and executive function deficits. Ornithine transcarbamylase deficiency is believed to occur in approximately 1 in every 80,000 people.	Patients presenting with a hyperammonemic coma must be treated immediately in a tertiary care center where plasma ammonia levels must be lowered (by hemodialysis or hemofiltration methods), ammonia scavenger therapy implemented, catabolism reversed (through glucose and lipid infusions) and special care taken to reduce the risk of neurological damage (electroencephalogram surveillance and treatment of seizures if necessary). Long-term therapy involves life-long restriction of protein intake and nitrogen scavenger therapy (with sodium benzoate and/or sodium or glycerol phenylbutyrate). A liver transplantation may also be considered in patients with severe, neonatal-onset OTCD (usually performed by 3-6 months of age) or those with frequent hyperammonemic episodes. Valproate, haloperidol, fasting and known stressors should be avoided. Pregnant women with OTCD should be carefully monitored, especially also in the postpartum period.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1		XLR改为XL	XLR改为XL
Metabolism-Amino Acid  Metabolism Disorders	162417	NAGS	N-acetylglutamate synthase deficiency	N-乙酰谷氨酸合成酶缺乏症	N-acetylglutamate synthase deficiency	AR	N-acetylglutamate synthase (NAGS) deficiency is an inherited disorder that causes ammonia to accumulate in the blood. NAGS deficiency may become evident in the first few days of life. An infant with this condition may be lacking in energy (lethargic) or unwilling to eat, and have a poorly controlled breathing rate or body temperature. Some babies with this disorder may experience seizures or unusual body movements, or go into a coma. Complications of NAGS synthase deficiency may include developmental delay and intellectual disability. In some affected individuals, signs and symptoms of N-acetylglutamate synthase deficiency are less severe, and do not appear until later in life. Some people with this form of the disorder cannot tolerate high-protein foods such as meat. They may experience sudden episodes of ammonia toxicity, resulting in vomiting, lack of coordination, confusion or coma, in response to illness or other stress. NAGS deficiency is a very rare disorder. Only a few cases have been reported worldwide, and the prevalence is estimated below 1/1,000,000.	Acute treatment of hyperammonemia of unknown etiology consists in high glucose perfusion (with withdrawal of proteins and lipids) and administration of ammonia scavengers (sodium benzoate and/or sodium phenylbutyrate), L-Arginine and N-carbamylglutamate. Once definite diagnosis of NAGS deficiency is established, daily administration of N-carbamylglutamate, a structural analogue of NAGS that activates CPSI, might be sufficient as a unique treatment without protein restriction.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V2	包装	1个基因对应1个疾病		参考《罕见疾病》及《罕见病诊疗指南（2019年版）》
Metabolism-Amino Acid  Metabolism Disorders	586	BCAT1	Hypervalinemia	高缬氨酸血症	Hypervalinemia	AR	Presenting in infancy, symptoms include lack of appetite, vomiting, dehydration, hypotonia and failure to thrive.[5]	Although the treatment modalities available for valinemia are very limited, the main management of the disease includes providing an infant with a diet that is low in valine	疾病治疗参考-https://www.myupchar.com/en/disease/valinemia	樊春娜	V2	包装，没位点，对症解读	1个基因对应1个疾病	2022.6.14，王星修改英文疾病分类和疾病名称，“hypervalinemia”改为“Hypervalinemia”	参考华大串联质谱疾病手册
Metabolism-Amino Acid  Metabolism Disorders	587	BCAT2		高缬氨酸血症	Hypervalinemia	AR	Hypervalinemia and hyperleucine-isoleucinemia (HVLI) is a branched-chain amino acid metabolic disorder characterized by highly elevated plasma valine and leucine concentrations. The patient presented in adulthood with headache and mild memory impairment, and had abnormal symmetric white matter signals on brain MRI	Although the treatment modalities available for valinemia are very limited, the main management of the disease includes providing an infant with a diet that is low in valine	疾病治疗参考-https://www.myupchar.com/en/disease/valinemia	樊春娜	V2	包装，没位点，对症解读	1个基因对应1个疾病	2022.6.14，王星修改英文疾病分类和疾病名称，“hypervalinemia”改为“Hypervalinemia”	参考华大串联质谱疾病手册
Metabolism-Amino Acid  Metabolism Disorders	3034	HAL	Histidinemia	组氨酸血症	Histidinemia	AD,AR	Histidinemia is an inherited condition characterized by elevated blood levels of the amino acid histidine, a building block of most proteins. Histidinemia is caused by the shortage (deficiency) of the enzyme that breaks down histidine. Histidinemia typically causes no health problems, and most people with elevated histidine levels are unaware that they have this condition.The combination of histidinemia and a medical complication during or soon after birth (such as a temporary lack of oxygen) might increase a person's chances of developing intellectual disability, behavioral problems, or learning disorders. Estimates of the incidence of histidinemia vary widely, ranging between 1 in 8,600 to 1 in 90,000 people.	The clinical relevance of the condition is unclear	疾病治疗参考-安馨可2019	不需解读	V2	包装，没位点，对症解读	1个基因对应1个疾病		参考华大串联质谱疾病手册
Metabolism-Organic Acid Disorders	36	ACADSB	2-Methylbutyryl Glycinuria	2-甲基丁酰甘氨酸尿症	2-Methylbutyryl Glycinuria	AR	Short/branched chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase (SBCAD) deficiency (also known as 2-methylbutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency) is a rare disorder in which the body is unable to process proteins properly. Normally, the body breaks down proteins from food into smaller parts called amino acids. Amino acids can be further processed to provide energy for the body. People with SBCAD deficiency cannot process a particular amino acid called isoleucine.Most cases of SBCAD deficiency are detected shortly after birth by newborn screening, which identifies abnormal levels of certain compounds in the blood. In individuals with this condition, a compound called 2-methylbutyryl carnitine is elevated in the blood and another called 2-methylbutyrylglycine is elevated in the urine (2-methylbutyrylglycinuria).Most people with SBCAD deficiency have no health problems related to the disorder. A small percentage of affected individuals develop signs and symptoms of the condition, which can begin soon after birth or later in childhood. The initial symptoms often include poor feeding, lack of energy (lethargy), vomiting, and irritability. These symptoms sometimes progress to serious health problems such as difficulty breathing, seizures, and coma. Additional problems can include poor growth, vision impairment, learning disabilities, muscle weakness, and delays in motor skills such as standing and walking.It is unclear why some people with SBCAD deficiency develop health problems and others do not. Doctors suggest that in some cases, signs and symptoms may be triggered by infections, prolonged periods without food (fasting), or an increased amount of protein-rich foods in the diet. Reducing the pressure at the lower esophageal sphincter, seeing a docter if you have a sudden change in pupil size  and other Symptomatic treatments are needed. The prevalence of Achalasia-Addisonianism-Alacrima Syndrome is unknown.	The way to prevent the symptoms of this disease is to have a very restricted diet with low-protein. Taken L-carnitine supplements may be helpful.	疾病治疗参考-https://www.babysfirsttest.org/newborn-screening/conditions/2-methylbutyrylglycinuria#:~:text=2-methylbutyrylglycinuria%20%282MBG%29%20is%20an%20inherited%20condition%20in%20which,of%20organic%20acids%20and%20toxins%20in%20the%20body.	樊春娜	V1
Metabolism-Organic Acid Disorders	56922	MCCC1	3-Methylcrotonyl-CoA carboxylase deficiency	3-甲基巴豆酰辅酶A羧化酶缺乏症1型	3-Methylcrotonyl-CoA carboxylase 1 deficiency	AR	3-methylcrotonyl-CoA carboxylase deficiency (also known as 3-MCC deficiency) is an inherited disorder in which the body is unable to process certain proteins properly. People with this disorder have a shortage of an enzyme that helps break down proteins containing a particular building block (amino acid) called leucine.Patients with 3-MCCD have a variable clinical phenotype with the vast majority of patients being asymptomatic and a small subgroup displaying symptoms of an organic aciduria, usually in association with environmental triggering factors.Most symptomatic patients have normal growth and development until presenting with an acute metabolic crisis, usually following a minor infection, fasting or introduction of a protein-rich diet, between the ages of 2-33 months. Symptoms include vomiting, coma and apnea. Rarely, neurological abnormalities (i.e. metabolic stroke, hemiparesis, and encephalopathy), weakness, muscular hypotonia and developmental delay have been reported. Between episodes of metabolic crisis patients are usually asymptomatic. Some patients with 3-MCCD may not develop symptoms until adulthood, manifesting with weakness and fatigue, while others may never show symptoms.	Early diagnosis may help in properly managing 3-MCCD and reducing the risk of severe metabolic crisis. Treatment is often not necessary in asymptomatic individuals. Some patients may require oral L-carnitine supplementation. A diet restricted in leucine is usually not warranted. Avoidance of fasting and of other precipitating stresses is recommended (mainly in infants and young children), as is the regular monitoring of free carnitine concentrations. An emergency regimen (IV glucose and the correction of acidosis) is recommended during intercurrent illness.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Organic Acid Disorders	64087	MCCC2		3-甲基巴豆酰辅酶A羧化酶缺乏症2型	3-Methylcrotonyl-CoA carboxylase 2 deficiency	AR	3-methylcrotonyl-CoA carboxylase deficiency (also known as 3-MCC deficiency) is an inherited disorder in which the body is unable to process certain proteins properly. People with this disorder have a shortage of an enzyme that helps break down proteins containing a particular building block (amino acid) called leucine.Patients with 3-MCCD have a variable clinical phenotype with the vast majority of patients being asymptomatic and a small subgroup displaying symptoms of an organic aciduria, usually in association with environmental triggering factors.Most symptomatic patients have normal growth and development until presenting with an acute metabolic crisis, usually following a minor infection, fasting or introduction of a protein-rich diet, between the ages of 2-33 months. Symptoms include vomiting, coma and apnea. Rarely, neurological abnormalities (i.e. metabolic stroke, hemiparesis, and encephalopathy), weakness, muscular hypotonia and developmental delay have been reported. Between episodes of metabolic crisis patients are usually asymptomatic. Some patients with 3-MCCD may not develop symptoms until adulthood, manifesting with weakness and fatigue, while others may never show symptoms.	Early diagnosis may help in properly managing 3-MCCD and reducing the risk of severe metabolic crisis. Treatment is often not necessary in asymptomatic individuals. Some patients may require oral L-carnitine supplementation. A diet restricted in leucine is usually not warranted. Avoidance of fasting and of other precipitating stresses is recommended (mainly in infants and young children), as is the regular monitoring of free carnitine concentrations. An emergency regimen (IV glucose and the correction of acidosis) is recommended during intercurrent illness.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Organic Acid Disorders	549	AUH	3-Methylglutaconic Aciduria	3-甲基戊烯二酸尿症1型	3-Methylglutaconic Aciduria type 1	AR	An inborn error of leucine metabolism. It leads to an autosomal recessive syndrome with variable clinical phenotype, ranging from delayed speech development to severe psychomotor retardation, coma, failure to thrive, metabolic acidosis and dystonia. Clinical manifestations usually become apparent in the neonatal period or during infancy but the diagnosis may not be made until childhood. Some of the reported patients also displayed hypoglycaemia, spastic quadriparesis, microcephaly, progressive neurological deficit, seizures, vomiting, atrophy of the basal ganglia, severe hypotonia and hepatomegly. MGA1 can be distinguished from other forms of MGA by the pattern of metabolite excretion: 3-methylglutaconic acid levels are higher than those detected in other forms, whereas methylglutaric acid levels are usually only slightly elevated and there is a high level of 3-hydroxyisovaleric acid excretion .	Treatment is largely symptomatic but dietary management with a modest leucine restriction and supplementation with L-carnitine may be beneficial in some cases.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1				参考华大串联质谱疾病手册
Metabolism-Organic Acid Disorders	6901	TAFAZZIN		3-甲基戊烯二酸尿症2型	3-Methylglutaconic Aciduria type 2	XLR	Barth syndrome (BTHS) is an inborn error of phospholipid metabolism characterized by dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM), skeletal myopathy, neutropenia, growth delay and organic aciduria.Many patients have a similar facial appearance with chubby cheeks, deep-set eyes and prominent ears.	Treatment is essentially supportive and multidisciplinary. Cardiac failure is treated with conventional drugs or by cardiac transplantation if refractory. The risk of bacterial sepsis in cases of intermittent neutropenia can be reduced by the use of prophylactic antibiotics and/or intermittent use of granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF). Difficulties in feeding may necessitate nasogastric or gastrostomy tube feeding.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V2	包装	1个基因对应1个疾病		参考华大串联质谱疾病手册
Metabolism-Organic Acid Disorders	80207	OPA3		3-甲基戊烯二酸尿症3型	3-Methylglutaconic Aciduria type 3	AR	3-methylglutaconic aciduria type III (MGA III) is an organic aciduria characterised by the association of optic atrophy and choreoathetosis with 3-methylglutaconic aciduria. The choreoathetoid movement disorder manifests later, usually within the first ten years of life. Other clinical features may include spastic paraparesis, mild ataxia and cognitive deficit, dysarthria, and nystagmus.	Treatment is symptomatic only and should be managed by a multidisciplinary team.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V2	包装	1个基因对应多个疾病，需确定包装疾病		参考华大串联质谱疾病手册
Metabolism-Organic Acid Disorders	131118	DNAJC19		3-甲基戊烯二酸尿症5型	3-Methylglutaconic Aciduria type 5	AR	Dilated cardiomyopathy with ataxia (DCMA) is characterized by severe early onset (before the age of three years) dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) with conduction defects (long QT syndrome), non-progressive cerebellar ataxia, testicular dysgenesis, and 3-methylglutaconic aciduria. To date, all cases of DCMA reported involve individuals from the Dariusleut Hutterite population, an endogamous population of the Great Plains region of Canada and the northern United States. Prenatal or postnatal growth failure, significant motor delay (due to cerebellar syndrome with ataxia) and male genital anomalies (ranging from isolated cryptorchidism to severe perineal hypospadias) are very frequent clinical signs. Additional features include optic atrophy, a mild increase in hepatic enzymes with microvesicular hepatic steatosis, a normochromic microcytic anemia, and mild to borderline non-progressive intellectual deficit.	Individuals frequently demonstrate findings including cardiac manifestations such as dilated cardiomyopathy and dysrhythmias, and surveillance may allow early detection and management	疾病治疗参考-安馨可2019	不需解读	V2	包装	1个基因对应1个疾病		参考华大串联质谱疾病手册
Metabolism-Organic Acid Disorders	81570	CLPB		3-甲基戊烯二酸尿症7B型	3-Methylglutaconic aciduria, type 7B	AR	An autosomal recessive inborn error of metabolism with a highly variable phenotype. Primary disease symptoms are increased levels of 3-methylglutaconic acid, neurologic deterioration and neutropenia. Other common features include progressive encephalopathy, movement abnormalities, delayed psychomotor development, cataracts, seizures, and recurrent infections.	Treatments may include the following: Regular visits with a heart doctor (cardiologist)、Regular visits with an eye doctor (ophthalmologist)、L-carnitine supplementation、Antibiotics.	疾病治疗参考-https://newbornscreening.hrsa.gov/conditions/3-methylglutaconic-aciduria#treatment-and-management	樊春娜	V2	包装	注意该基因还相关两个AD的疾病，但只包装列表中疾病。	注意该基因还相关两个AD的疾病，但只包装列表中疾病。	参考华大串联质谱疾病手册
Metabolism-Organic Acid Disorders	84947	SERAC1		3-甲基戊烯二酸尿症伴耳聋、脑病及leigh样综合征	3-Methylglutaconic aciduria with deafness, encephalopathy, and Leigh-like syndrome	AR	An autosomal recessive disorder characterized by childhood onset of delayed psychomotor development or psychomotor regression, sensorineural deafness, spasticity or dystonia, and increased excretion of 3-methylglutaconic acid. Brain imaging shows cerebral and cerebellar atrophy as well as lesions in the basal ganglia reminiscent of Leigh syndrome. Laboratory studies show increased serum lactate and alanine, mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation defects, abnormal mitochondria, abnormal phosphatidylglycerol and cardiolipin profiles in fibroblasts, and abnormal accumulation of unesterified cholesterol within cells.	Treatments may include the following: Regular visits with a heart doctor (cardiologist)、Regular visits with an eye doctor (ophthalmologist)、L-carnitine supplementation、Antibiotics.	疾病治疗参考-https://newbornscreening.hrsa.gov/conditions/3-methylglutaconic-aciduria#treatment-and-management	樊春娜	V2	包装	1个基因对应1个疾病		参考华大串联质谱疾病手册
Metabolism-Organic Acid Disorders	3155	HMGCL	3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA lyase deficiency	3-羟基-3-甲基戊二酰辅酶A裂解酶缺乏症	3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA lyase deficiency	AR	3-Hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA lyase deficiency is a rare autosomal recessive disorder with the cardinal manifestations of metabolic acidosis without ketonuria, hypoglycemia, and a characteristic pattern of elevated urinary organic acid metabolites, which include 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaric, 3-methylglutaric, and 3-hydroxyisovaleric acids. Urinary levels of 3-methylcrotonylglycine may be increased. Dicarboxylic aciduria, hepatomegaly, and hyperammonemia may also be observed. Presenting clinical signs include irritability, lethargy, coma, and vomiting.	Patients must be treated by intravenous 10% glucose and supportive treatment during acute metabolic crises. Maintenance treatment requires protein/leucine-restricted diet with a leucine free amino acid mixture, restricted fat intake and regular feeding (every 3-6 hours). Carnitine supplementation is often given.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Organic Acid Disorders	3158	HMGCS2	3-Hydroxy-3-Methylglutaryl-CoA Synthase 2 Deficiency	3-羟基-3-甲基戊二酰辅酶A合成酶2缺乏症	3-Hydroxy-3-Methylglutaryl-CoA Synthase 2 Deficiency	AR	A metabolic disorder characterized by severe hypoketotic hypoglycemia, encephalopathy, and hepatomegaly.	When initial metabolic decompensation occurred, all patients were admitted to the hospital and received regular supportive treatment including intravenous glucose and sodium bicarbonate. We also administered liver-protecting and carnitine therapy. We gave mechanical ventilation and continuous renal replacement therapy to any patients who were critically ill because of persistent metabolic acidosis and multiple organ dysfunction. Once the HMGCS2D diagnosis was confirmed, all patients were instructed to avoid long periods of fasting, and put on a low-fat diet.	疾病治疗参考-PMID35308163	樊春娜	V2	包装	1个基因对应1个疾病		参考来源：杨秋萍, 李思涛, 熊慧, 等.  3-羟基-3-甲基戊二酰辅酶A合成酶2缺乏症一例并文献复习 [J] . 中国小儿急救医学,2020,27 (10): 783-785. DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.issn.1673-4912.2020.10.016
Metabolism-Organic Acid Disorders	38	ACAT1	Beta-Ketothiolase Deficiency	β-酮硫酶缺乏症	Beta-Ketothiolase Deficiency	AR	Beta-ketothiolase Deficiency is a disorder in which the body cannot efficiently process isoleucine and ketones, it typically appears between the age of 6 months and 24 months. The characteristic features of this condition include epsode of vomiting, dehydration, difficulty breathing, lethargy and occasionally seizures, sometimes lead to coma. A low-protein diet, L-carnitine and bicitra supplement are efficient treatment of this condition. Beta-ketothiolase Deficiency is very rare, its prevalence is fewer than 1:1,000,000.	During a ketoacidotic crisis, intravenous fluids with glucose and electrolytes should be administered immediately. Bicarbonate (initially as 1mmol/kg over 10 minutes followed by continuous infusion) should be given to treat acidosis. Carnitine supplementation may be helpful. Dialysis is effective but usually not necessary. Unconscious patients and those with severe dyspnea may require mechanical ventilation. Long-term management involves avoidance of fasting (and intravenous glucose in cases of fever or vomiting) and, in children, a mildly restricted protein intake (1.5-2g/kg/day), avoidance of fat-rich (ketogenic) diet, and L-carnitine therapy in those with low carnitine levels. Avoidance of isoleucine overload might prevent neurological complications, but currently there is no evidence to support this.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Organic Acid Disorders	23417	MLYCD	Malonyl-Coa Decarboxylase Deficiency	丙二酰-CoA脱羧酶缺乏症	Malonyl-Coa Decarboxylase Deficiency	AR	Malonyl-CoA decarboxylase deficiency is a condition that prevents the body from converting certain fats to energy. The signs and symptoms of this disorder typically appear in early childhood. Almost all affected children have delayed development. Additional signs and symptoms can include weak muscle tone (hypotonia), seizures, diarrhea, vomiting, and low blood sugar (hypoglycemia). A heart condition called cardiomyopathy, which weakens and enlarges the heart muscle, is another common feature of malonyl-CoA decarboxylase deficiency.Mutations in the MLYCD gene cause malonyl-CoA decarboxylase deficiency.This condition is very rare; fewer than 30 cases have been reported.	The principle treatment is dietary, with patients being recommended to follow a low fat/high carbohydrate diet. Carnitine supplements may also be recommended.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Organic Acid Disorders	5095	PCCA	Propionicacidemia	丙酸血症	Propionicacidemia	AR	Propionic acidemia can present in one of the following forms: severe neonatal onset, intermittent late onset or a chronic progressive form. In the severe neonatal onset form, the affected infants present with symptoms of metabolic intoxication (poor feeding, vomiting, altered sensorium) and pancytopenia within several hours to weeks after birth. In the intermittent late onset form, the disease presents after a year or even later in life with episodes of metabolic decompensation provoked by periods of catabolic stress like fever, vomiting and trauma. Patients may also present with acute neurological crisis characterized by dystonia, rigidity, choreoathetosis and dementia (due to infarction of basal ganglia). In the chronic progressive form, the disease presents as failure to thrive, chronic vomiting, psychomotor delay, hypotonia, seizures and movement disorders. Intellectual disability, optic neuropathy, cardiomyopathy, long QT syndrome, pancreatitis, dermatitis, and immune dysfunction are known complications.	Confirmation of the diagnosis is not indispensable to start the treatment. Reversal of catabolism by stopping protein intake and administering non-protein calories in the form of intravenous fluids is the mainstay of treatment of a crisis. Hyperammonemia is treated by administering sodium benzoate, carbamyl glutamate or by hemodialysis. Nutrition management, in particular protein restriction, is a cornerstone to the long term treatment of patients with PA. Growth is regularly monitored. Carnitine supplementation helps in detoxification. Avoiding metabolic decompensation and promptly treating the episodes with standard treatment may improve intellectual outcome.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Organic Acid Disorders	5096	PCCB		丙酸血症	Propionicacidemia	AR	Propionic acidemia can present in one of the following forms: severe neonatal onset, intermittent late onset or a chronic progressive form. In the severe neonatal onset form, the affected infants present with symptoms of metabolic intoxication (poor feeding, vomiting, altered sensorium) and pancytopenia within several hours to weeks after birth. In the intermittent late onset form, the disease presents after a year or even later in life with episodes of metabolic decompensation provoked by periods of catabolic stress like fever, vomiting and trauma. Patients may also present with acute neurological crisis characterized by dystonia, rigidity, choreoathetosis and dementia (due to infarction of basal ganglia). In the chronic progressive form, the disease presents as failure to thrive, chronic vomiting, psychomotor delay, hypotonia, seizures and movement disorders. Intellectual disability, optic neuropathy, cardiomyopathy, long QT syndrome, pancreatitis, dermatitis, and immune dysfunction are known complications.	Confirmation of the diagnosis is not indispensable to start the treatment. Reversal of catabolism by stopping protein intake and administering non-protein calories in the form of intravenous fluids is the mainstay of treatment of a crisis. Hyperammonemia is treated by administering sodium benzoate, carbamyl glutamate or by hemodialysis. Nutrition management, in particular protein restriction, is a cornerstone to the long term treatment of patients with PA. Growth is regularly monitored. Carnitine supplementation helps in detoxification. Avoiding metabolic decompensation and promptly treating the episodes with standard treatment may improve intellectual outcome.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Organic Acid Disorders	7915	ALDH5A1	Succinic Semialdehyde Dehydrogenase Deficiency	琥珀酸半醛脱氢酶缺乏症	Succinic Semialdehyde Dehydrogenase Deficiency	AR	Succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase (SSADH) deficiency is characterized by psychomotor retardation, childhood-onset hypotonia, and ataxia. Seizures occur in more than 50% of affected individuals. Hyperkinetic behavior, aggression, self-injurious behaviors, hallucinations, and sleep disturbances have been reported in nearly half of all patients, and are common in older individuals. Basal ganglia signs such as choreoathetosis, dystonia, and myoclonus have been reported in a few individuals with earlier-onset, more severe disease. Involvement beyond the central nervous system has not been described.Treatment of manifestations: Management is most often symptomatic, directed at the treatment of seizures and neurobehavioral disturbances. Effective antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) include carbamazepine and lamotrigine (LTG). While vigabatrin, an irreversible inhibitor of GABA-transaminase that inhibits the formation of succinic semialdehyde, is one of the most widely prescribed AEDs, it has shown inconsistent results in treatment of seizures associated with SSADH deficiency. Methylphenidate, thioridazine, risperidal, fluoxetine, and benzodiazepines are effective therapies for anxiety, aggressiveness, inattention, and hallucinations. Additional, non-pharmacologic treatments may include physical and occupational therapy, sensory integration, and/or speech therapy. SSADH deficiency is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner.	As there is no treatment currently available to effectively address the underlying disorder, long-term management of the phenotype focuses on pharmacologically controlling the most debilitating manifestations (typically seizures and neurobehavioral disorders). Carbamazepine and lamotrigine are effective in controlling seizures. Anxiety, aggressiveness, inattention, and hallucinations may be treated with benzodiazepines, methylphenidate, thioridazine, risperidone or fluoxetine. Physical and occupational therapy, sensory integration, and/or speech therapy may be beneficial in some cases.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Organic Acid Disorders	4594	MMUT	Methylmalonic Acidemia	甲基丙二酸血症MUT型	Methylmalonic aciduria, mut(0) type	AR	Mut(0) type Methylmalonic aciduria is a subtype of Methylmalonic aciduria, this form is unresponsive to B12 therapy. Methylmalonic aciduria is a genetically heterogeneous disorder of methylmalonate and cobalamin (cbl; vitamin B12) metabolism. The clinical spectrum of methylmalonic aciduria is wide, ranging from a benign condition to fatal neonatal disease. The most common presenting symptoms at onset were lethargy, failure to thrive, recurrent vomiting, dehydration, respiratory distress, and hypotonia. Other common features included hepatomegaly, developmental delay, and coma. All patients had methylmalonic acidemia and normal serum cobalamin, and most had metabolic acidosis, ketonuria, hyperammonemia, and hyperglycinemia. Approximately half of all the patients had pancytopenia. All  mut(0) patients had an early neonatal presentation. Most mut(0) patients died during the first few months of life.	Treatment involves a protein-restricted diet, which should be instituted as soon as life-threatening problems such as ketoacidosis or hyperammonemia have been resolved. Oral antibiotics may also be useful. Liver transplantation has been attempted in a limited number of patients but this does not usually offer complete protection against renal and neurological complications.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Organic Acid Disorders	84693	MCEE		甲基丙二酸单酰-coa表异构酶缺乏症	Methylmalonyl-Coa Epimerase Deficiency	AR	Methylmalonic acidemia due to methylmalonyl-CoA epimerase deficiency is a rare inborn error of metabolism disease characterized by mild to moderate, persistent elevation of methylmalonic acid in plasma, urine and cerebrospinal fluid. Clinical presentation may include acute metabolic decompensation with metabolic acidosis (presenting with vomiting, dehydration, confusion, hallucinations), nonspecific neurological symptoms, or may also be asymptomatic. Methylmalonic acidemia?is an inherited disorder in which the body is unable to process certain proteins and fats (lipids) properly. The effects of?methylmalonic acidemia, which usually appear in early infancy, vary from mild to life-threatening. Affected infants can experience vomiting, dehydration, weak muscle tone (hypotonia), developmental delay, excessive tiredness (lethargy), an enlarged liver (hepatomegaly), and failure to gain weight and grow at the expected rate (failure to thrive). Long-term complications can include feeding problems, intellectual disability, chronic kidney disease, and inflammation of the pancreas (pancreatitis). Without treatment, this disorder can lead to coma and death in some cases.	Critically ill individuals are stabilized by restoring volume status and acid-base balance; reducing or eliminating protein intake; providing increased calories via high glucose-containing fluids and insulin to arrest catabolism; and monitoring serum electrolytes and ammonia, venous or arterial blood gases, and urine output.	疾病治疗参考-https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK1231/#mma.Management	樊春娜	V2	包装	1个基因对应1个疾病		参考V1同类疾病
Metabolism-Organic Acid Disorders	166785	MMAA		甲基丙二酸血症cblA型	Methylmalonic Acidemia, CblA Type	AR	Vitamin B12-responsive methylmalonic acidemia (MA) is an inborn error of vitamin B12 (cobalamin) metabolism characterized by recurrent ketoacidotic comas or transient vomiting, dehydration, hypotonia and intellectual deficit, which responds to vitamin B12. Patients usually present in infancy or early childhood with features including lethargy, failure to thrive, recurrent vomiting, dehydration, respiratory distress, muscle hypotonia, hepatomegaly and coma. They may also show signs of anemia (not megaloblastic), have potentially life-threatening ketoacidosis and/or hyperammonemia, and developmental delay and intellectual deficit, with metabolic stroke affecting the brain stem. MA frequently leads to end-stage renal failure by adolescence or adulthood. Patients with cblB are usually more severely affected than patients with cblA.	Treatment involves a protein-restricted diet, which should be instituted as soon as life-threatening manifestations such as ketoacidosis or hyperammonemia have been resolved, and intramuscular injections of vitamin B12, with or without carnitine (mainly effective in cblA). A good response to cobalamin supplementation has been reported in most cblA patients and in nearly half cblB patients. Oral antibiotics may also be useful to reduce propionic acid from gut flora.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Organic Acid Disorders	326625	MMAB		甲基丙二酸血症cblB型	Methylmalonic Acidemia, CblB Type	AR	Vitamin B12-responsive methylmalonic acidemia (MA) is an inborn error of vitamin B12 (cobalamin) metabolism characterized by recurrent ketoacidotic comas or transient vomiting, dehydration, hypotonia and intellectual deficit, which responds to vitamin B12. Patients usually present in infancy or early childhood with features including lethargy, failure to thrive, recurrent vomiting, dehydration, respiratory distress, muscle hypotonia, hepatomegaly and coma. They may also show signs of anemia (not megaloblastic), have potentially life-threatening ketoacidosis and/or hyperammonemia, and developmental delay and intellectual deficit, with metabolic stroke affecting the brain stem. MA frequently leads to end-stage renal failure by adolescence or adulthood. Patients with cblB are usually more severely affected than patients with cblA.	Treatment involves a protein-restricted diet, which should be instituted as soon as life-threatening manifestations such as ketoacidosis or hyperammonemia have been resolved, and intramuscular injections of vitamin B12, with or without carnitine (mainly effective in cblA). A good response to cobalamin supplementation has been reported in most cblA patients and in nearly half cblB patients. Oral antibiotics may also be useful to reduce propionic acid from gut flora.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Organic Acid Disorders	25974	MMACHC		甲基丙二酸血症cblC型	Methylmalonic Acidemia, CblC Type	AR	cblC type methylmalonic acidemia with homocystinuria is a form of methylmalonic acidemia with homocystinuria, an inborn error of vitamin B12 (cobalamin) metabolism characterized by megaloblastic anemia, lethargy, failure to thrive, developmental delay, intellectual deficit and seizures. The disease typically presents with failure to thrive, acute neurological deterioration, intellectual deficit, lethargy, seizures, microcephaly, a salt-and-pepper retinopathy, and signs of megaloblastic anemia (pallor, fatigue, anorexia). Severe brain abnormalities including hydrocephalus, white matter abnormalities, cerebral atrophy, and unusual basal ganglia lesions are common. Onset of the disorder can be early (infantile) or late (juvenile or adult), with the late-onset form characterized by ataxia, dementia and psychosis.	Patients are treated with intramuscular injections of hydroxycobalamin, oral betaine, and folic acid. Good metabolic control and correction of hematologic problems can sometimes be achieved with this treatment but most patients continue to have signs of motor and language delay, intellectual deficit and abnormal ophthalmologic findings. Early diagnosis and treatment are important.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Organic Acid Disorders	27249	MMADHC		甲基丙二酸血症伴同型半胱氨酸血症cblD型	Methylmalonic Aciduria and Homocystinuria CblD type	AR	cblD type methylmalonic acidemia with homocystinuria is a form of methylmalonic acidemia with homocystinuria, an inborn error of vitamin B12 (cobalamin) metabolism characterized by variable biochemical, neurological and hematological manifestations. Three different presentations have been described: the classic form with combined methylmalonic aciduria and homocystinuria;?cblD?variant 1 (cblDv1) with isolated homocystinuria; and?cblD?variant 2 (cblDv2) with isolated methylmalonic aciduria. Clinical presentation is extremely variable. The disorder can present from early infancy to late childhood. Presenting signs are variable depending on which aspect(s) of cobalamin metabolism are affected and can include developmental delay, severe learning difficulties, seizures, movement and gait abnormalities, behavioral problems and signs of megaloblastic anemia (pallor, fatigue, anorexia).	Patients are treated with intramuscular injections of hydroxycobalamin, oral betaine, and folic acid. Good metabolic control and correction of hematologic problems can sometimes be achieved with this treatment but most patients continue to have signs of motor and language delay, intellectual deficit and abnormal ophthalmologic findings. Early diagnosis and treatment are important.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet大类疾病	樊春娜	V2	包装	1个基因对应1个疾病		参考V1同类疾病
Metabolism-Organic Acid Disorders	5052	PRDX1		甲基丙二酸血症伴同型半胱氨酸血症cblC型	Methylmalonic Aciduria and Homocystinuria CblC type	AR	cblC type methylmalonic acidemia with homocystinuria is a form of methylmalonic acidemia with homocystinuria, an inborn error of vitamin B12 (cobalamin) metabolism characterized by megaloblastic anemia, lethargy, failure to thrive, developmental delay, intellectual deficit and seizures. The disease typically presents with failure to thrive, acute neurological deterioration, intellectual deficit, lethargy, seizures, microcephaly, a salt-and-pepper retinopathy, and signs of megaloblastic anemia (pallor, fatigue, anorexia). Severe brain abnormalities including hydrocephalus, white matter abnormalities, cerebral atrophy, and unusual basal ganglia lesions are common. Onset of the disorder can be early (infantile) or late (juvenile or adult), with the late-onset form characterized by ataxia, dementia and psychosis.	Patients are treated with intramuscular injections of hydroxycobalamin, oral betaine, and folic acid. Good metabolic control and correction of hematologic problems can sometimes be achieved with this treatment but most patients continue to have signs of motor and language delay, intellectual deficit and abnormal ophthalmologic findings. Early diagnosis and treatment are important.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V2	包装	1个基因对应1个疾病		参考V1同类疾病
Metabolism-Organic Acid Disorders	5826	ABCD4		甲基丙二酸尿症伴同型半胱氨酸尿症CblJ型	Methylmalonic aciduria and homocystinuria, cblJ type	AR	Onset of the disorder can be between early infancy to adulthood. Patients with methylmalonic acidemia with homocystinuria of all types can present with developmental delay, signs of megaloblastic anemia (pallor, fatigue, and anorexia), lethargy and seizures. Patients with  cblJ present with feeding difficulties, hypotonia, stomatitis, mild facial dysmorphism, cardiac malformations, and skin rashes. Patients who become symptomatic beyond infancy may present with ataxia, dementia or psychosis.	Patients are treated with intramuscular injections of hydroxycobalamin, oral betaine, and folic acid. Good metabolic control and correction of hematologic problems can sometimes be achieved with this treatment but most patients continue to have signs of motor and language delay, intellectual deficit and abnormal ophthalmologic findings. Early diagnosis and treatment are important.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V2	包装	1个基因对应1个疾病		参考V1同类疾病
Metabolism-Organic Acid Disorders	3054	HCFC1		甲基丙二酸尿症伴同型半胱氨酸尿症CblX型	Methylmalonic acidemia with homocystinuria CblX type	XLR	A disorder characterized by significantly below average general intellectual functioning associated with impairments in adaptive behavior and manifested during the developmental period. Intellectual deficiency is the only primary symptom of non-syndromic X-linked mental retardation, while syndromic mental retardation presents with associated physical, neurological and/or psychiatric manifestations.	Patients are treated with intramuscular injections of hydroxycobalamin, oral betaine, and folic acid. Good metabolic control and correction of hematologic problems can sometimes be achieved with this treatment but most patients continue to have signs of motor and language delay, intellectual deficit and abnormal ophthalmologic findings. Early diagnosis and treatment are important.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet大类疾病	樊春娜	V2	包装	1个基因对应1个疾病		参考V1同类疾病
Metabolism-Organic Acid Disorders	55788	LMBRD1		甲基丙二酸尿症伴同型半胱氨酸尿症CblF型	Methylmalonic aciduria and homocystinuria CblF type	AR	cblF type methylmalonic acidemia with homocystinuria is a form of methylmalonic acidemia with homocystinuria (see this term), an inborn error of vitamin B12 (cobalamin) metabolism characterized by megaloblastic anemia, lethargy, failure to thrive, developmental delay, intellectual deficit and seizures.	Patients are treated with intramuscular injections of hydroxycobalamin, oral betaine, and folic acid. Good metabolic control and correction of hematologic problems can sometimes be achieved with this treatment but most patients continue to have signs of motor and language delay, intellectual deficit and abnormal ophthalmologic findings. Early diagnosis and treatment are important.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V2	包装	1个基因对应1个疾病		参考V1同类疾病
Metabolism-Organic Acid Disorders	197322	ACSF3		联合性丙二酸甲基丙二酸尿症	Combined malonic and methylmalonic aciduria	AR	Combined malonic and methylmalonic aciduria(CMAMMA) is a rare recessive inborn error of metabolism characterised by elevations of urine malonic acid (MA) and methylamalonic acid (MMA). The signs and symptoms of the disease can begin in childhood. In some children, the buildup of acids causes the blood to become too acidic, which can damage the body’s tissues and organs. Other signs and symptoms may include involuntary muscle tensing, weak muscle tone, developmental delay, an inability to grow and gain weight at the expected rate, low blood sugar, and coma. Some affected children have an unusually small head size[1]. Based on the frequency of mutations in ACSF3 in the ClinSeq cohort followed at NIH and the 1000 Genomes Project, Sloan et al. (2011) estimated a disease incidence of about 1 in 30,000 with 95% confidence intervals of 1 in 9,000 to 1 in 92,000, and predicted that ACSF3 deficiency is one of the most common forms of methylmalonic acidemia[2]. Gregg et al. (1998)  reported that patients with CMAMMA may best be treated with a diet high in carbohydrates and that these patients should avoid diets with a high protein content[3].	Although the optimal treatment (as well as the requirement thereof) is currently unclear, low-protein diet may be beneficial, and general management similar to that in methylmalonic acidemia may be beneficial.	疾病治疗参考-安馨可2019	不需解读	V2	包装	1个基因对应1个疾病		参考V1同类疾病
Metabolism-Organic Acid Disorders	51293	CD320		钴胺转运蛋白受体缺陷性甲基丙二酸血症	Methylmalonic Aciduria due to Transcobalamin Receptor Defect	AR	A metabolic disorder characterized by increased blood C3-acylcarnitine levels, elevated methylmalonate and homocysteine, and low uptake of transcobalamin-bound cobalamin, but normal conversion to adenosylcobalamin and methylcobalamin. Plasma vitamin B12 and total homocysteine are normal.	In the index case, biochemical abnormalities normalized with a single hydroxocobalamin injection and remained normal for nine months	疾病治疗参考-https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK1231/#mma.Management	樊春娜	V2	包装，没位点，对症解读	1个基因对应1个疾病		参考V1同类疾病
Metabolism-Organic Acid Disorders	8803	SUCLA2		线粒体DNA缺失综合征5型（伴甲基丙二酸血症）	Mitochondrial DNA depletion syndrome 5(with methylmalonic aciduria)	AR	A disorder due to mitochondrial dysfunction. It is characterized by infantile onset of hypotonia, neurologic deterioration, a hyperkinetic-dystonic movement disorder, external ophthalmoplegia, deafness, variable renal tubular dysfunction, and mild methylmalonic aciduria in some patients.	Physical therapy to maintain muscle function and prevent joint contractures; anti-seizure medication for epileptic seizures; nasogastric or gastrostomy tube as needed to assure adequate caloric intake; chest physiotherapy, aggressive antibiotic treatment of chest infections, and respiratory aids such as assisted nasal ventilation or use of a tracheostomy and ventilator when indicated; bracing to treat scoliosis or kyphosis; blepharoplasty for significant ptosis; and hearing aids/cochlear implantation for sensorineural hearing loss.	疾病治疗参考-https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK6803/	樊春娜	V2	包装	1个基因对应1个疾病		参考V1同类疾病
Metabolism-Organic Acid Disorders	8802	SUCLG1		线粒体DNA缺失综合征9型（伴甲基丙二酸血症）	Mitochondrial DNA depletion syndrome 9(with methylmalonic aciduria)	AR	Fatal infantile lactic acidosis is a severe form of Succinate-CoA ligase deficiency. Affected infants develop a toxic buildup of lactic acid in the body (lactic acidosis) in the first day of life, which leads to muscle weakness and breathing difficulties. Children with fatal infantile lactic acidosis usually live only a few days after birth. Although the exact prevalence of succinate-CoA ligase deficiency is unknown, it appears to be very rare. This condition occurs more frequently among people from the Faroe Islands in the North Atlantic Ocean.	Management is supportive and is best provided by a multidisciplinary team. Treatment may include physical therapy to help maintain muscle function and prevent joint contractures, nutritional support by a dietitian, use of a nasogastric tube or gastrostomy tube feedings, chest physiotherapy, and aggressive antibiotic treatment of chest infections. When present, seizures are treated using standard antiepileptic drugs.	疾病治疗参考-https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK425223/	樊春娜	V2	包装	1个基因对应1个疾病		参考V1同类疾病
Metabolism-Organic Acid Disorders	3141	HLCS	Multiple carboxylase deficiency	全羧化酶合成酶缺乏症	Multiple carboxylase deficiency	AR	Holocarboxylase synthetase deficiency is an inherited disorder in which the body is unable to use the vitamin biotin effectively. This disorder is classified as a multiple carboxylase deficiency, a group of disorders characterized by impaired activity of certain enzymes that depend on biotin. The signs and symptoms of holocarboxylase synthetase deficiency typically appear within the first few months of life, but the age of onset varies. Affected infants often have difficulty feeding, breathing problems, a skin rash, hair loss (alopecia), and a lack of energy (lethargy). Immediate treatment and lifelong management with biotin supplements may prevent many of these complications. If left untreated, the disorder can lead to delayed development, seizures, and coma. These medical problems may be life-threatening in some cases. The exact incidence of this condition is unknown, but it is estimated to affect 1 in 87,000 people.	The primary treatment for HCSD is free biotin supplementation which can improve the clinical status of symptomatic individuals with the enzyme deficiency and prevent some or all symptoms from developing in asymptomatic individuals with the disorder. Treatment should be started as soon as possible after diagnosis and must be continued lifelong. Affected individuals should be monitored for later-onset complications and for compliance with therapy. Timely and ongoing treatment makes it possible to reduce symptoms considerably, although some patients develop complications despite appropriate treatment often requiring higher doses of biotin.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Organic Acid Disorders	686	BTD	Biotinidase Deficiency	生物素酶缺乏症	Biotinidase Deficiency	AR	Biotinidase deficiency is an inherited disorder in which the body is unable to reuse and recycle the vitamin biotin. This disorder is classified as a multiple carboxylase deficiency, a group of disorders characterized by impaired activity of certain enzymes that depend on biotin. The signs and symptoms of biotinidase deficiency typically appear within the first few months of life, but the age of onset varies. Children with profound biotinidase deficiency, the more severe form of the condition, often have seizures, weak muscle tone (hypotonia), breathing problems, and delayed development. If left untreated, the disorder can lead to hearing loss, eye abnormalities and loss of vision, problems with movement and balance (ataxia), skin rashes, hair loss (alopecia), and a fungal infection called candidiasis. Immediate treatment and lifelong management with biotin supplements can prevent many of these complications. Partial biotinidase deficiency is a milder form of this condition. Affected children experience hypotonia, skin rashes, and hair loss, but these problems may appear only during illness, infection, or other times of stress. Profound or partial biotinidase deficiency occurs in approximately 1 in 60,000 newborns.	Supplementation with oral biotin in the free, non-protein bound, form is the primary treatment and improves symptoms in symptomatic patients, and prevents symptoms in those identified by newborn screening or before symptoms have developed. Once some features, such as optic atrophy, hearing loss, or developmental delay develop, they may not be reversible with biotin treatment. Treatment with biotin should be maintained lifelong. There are no known, serious adverse effects of biotin therapy. Patients and their families should be warned about the importance of treatment compliance. Periodic ophthalmological, neurological and metabolic evaluations are recommended. Raw eggs should be avoided because of their avidin content (biotin-binding substance), but cooking inactivates the binding effect of avidin.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Organic Acid Disorders	2639	GCDH	Glutaric Acidemia I	戊二酸血症I型	Glutaric Acidemia I	AR	Glutaryl-CoA dehydrogenase (GCDH) deficiency (GDD) is an autosomal recessive neurometabolic disorder clinically characterized by encephalopathic crises resulting in striatal injury and a severe dystonic dyskinetic movement disorder. Neonates are mainly asymptomatic, although 75 % present with macrocephaly and possibly show hypotonia and irritability. If undiagnosed, the initial acute encephalopathic crisis occurs between 3-36 months, typically precipitated by an intercurrent febrile illness, vaccination or a surgical intervention, and characterized by hypotonia, loss of motor skills and convulsions resulting in bilateral striatal injury with severe secondary dystonia and occasionally subdural and retinal hemorrhage. GDD can exceptionally present with hypoglycemia or acidosis. With age (>6 years) and with appropriate treatment, the risk of encephalopathic crises subsides. In some patients, hypotonia and dystonia develop gradually with no encephalopathic crisis, which is known as late-onset or insidious-onset GDD.	Daily management comprises a low lysine diet, carnitine supplementation in association with prompt emergency treatment during intercurrent illness. During acute episodes, management includes, most importantly, increasing energy supply (20-100 % above RDI); omission of natural protein for 24-48 hours followed by a gradual reintroduction; L-carnitine supplementation doubling and close monitoring of glucose, electrolyte and fluid balance, as well as urea and liver status by an informed skilled interdisciplinary team. Adherence to emergency treatment recommendations is imperative in preventing neuronal damage and subsequent secondary dystonia.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Organic Acid Disorders	3028	HSD17B10	2-Methyl-3-Hydroxybutyryl-CoA Dehydrogenase Deficiency	2-甲基-3-羟丁酰辅酶A脱氢酶缺乏症	2-Methyl-3-Hydroxybutyryl-CoA Dehydrogenase Deficiency	XLD	A disorder characterized by significantly below average general intellectual functioning associated with impairments in adaptive behavior and manifested during the developmental period. MRXS10 patients manifest mild mental retardation, choreoathetosis and abnormal behavior.	At present, there is no effective treatment for the disease. A low-protein, high-energy dietary regimen with carnitine supplementation reduces the accumulation of isoleucine metabolites in blood and urine, but does not improve psychomotor deterioration. Due to its ability to interfere with mitochondrial energy metabolism, valproic acid should be avoided.	疾病治疗参考-ORPHANET -ORPHA391417	樊春娜	V2	包装	1个基因对应1个疾病		疾病简介参考-(GARD) Genetic and Rare Diseases Information Center ；Medlineplus  <br/>疾病治疗参考-ORPHANET -ORPHA391417
Metabolism-Organic Acid Disorders	27034	ACAD8	Isobutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency	异丁酰辅酶A脱氢酶缺乏症	Isobutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency	AR	Isobutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase(IBD) deficiency is a disorder which the body is unable to break down valine properly, most people with IBD deficiency are asymptomatic. The characteristic features of this condition include dilated cardiomyopathy, hypotonia, developmental delay. It can also cause anemia and very low blood levels of carnitine. A continue restricted diet, special formulas and foods and L-carnitine supplements are efficient treatment of this condition. IBD deficiency is a rare disorder; approximately 22 cases have been reported in the medical literature.	Metabolic precautions may be beneficial to prevent and treat acute decompensation; Medical treatment (eg, with oral L-carnitine) has been reported as allowing growth catch-up and normalization of cardiac status	疾病治疗参考-安馨可2019	不需解读	V1				参考华大串联质谱疾病手册
Metabolism-Organic Acid Disorders	3712	IVD	Isovaleric Acidemia	异戊酸血症	Isovaleric Acidemia	AR	Isovaleric acidemia  is a rare autosomal recessive metabolic disorder which disrupts or prevents normal metabolism of the branched-chain amino acid leucine. It is a classical type of organic acidemia.The initial symptoms include poor feeding, vomiting, seizures, and lack of energy (lethargy). These symptoms sometimes progress to more serious medical problems, including seizures, coma, and possibly death. A characteristic sign of isovaleric acidemia is a distinctive odor of sweaty feet during acute illness. This odor is caused by the buildup of a compound called isovaleric acid in affected individuals.The signs and symptoms of isovaleric acidemia appear during childhood and may come and go over time. Treatment consists of dietary protein restriction, particularly leucine. During acute episodes, glycine is sometimes given, which conjugates with isovalerate forming isovalerylglycine, or carnitine which has a similar effect.If the disease is recognized promptly and treated diligently, children with IVA can live near-normal lives. It is possible, however, that they will have episodes of metabolic crisis, although these episodes tend to decrease with age. If these episodes are not treated, irreversible learning problems or mental disability can occur.It is estimated to affect at least 1 in 250,000 people in the United States.	Lifelong management is with a low protein diet. Children diagnosed with IVA should be referred to a metabolic dietician who can tailor the diet to support normal growth and development. Supplementing with artificial protein restricted in leucine may be required. L-carnitine and glycine may be prescribed to clear excess isovaleric acid. Emergency treatment in times of metabolic stress (including illness and fasting) is with an anabolic diet. Reducing, but not eliminating, natural protein in the diet for 12-24 hours may help, but only if additional other calories can be given to promote anabolism.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Fatty Acid Oxidation Disorders	133686	NADK2	2,4-Dienoyl-CoA Reductase Deficiency	2，4-二烯酰辅酶A还原酶缺乏症	2,4-Dienoyl-CoA Reductase Deficiency	AR	A rare, autosomal recessive, inborn error of polyunsaturated fatty acids and lysine metabolism, resulting in mitochondrial dysfunction. Affected individuals have a severe encephalopathy with neurologic and metabolic abnormalities beginning in early infancy. Laboratory studies show increased C10:2 carnitine levels and hyperlysinemia.	One of these patients and the patient reported here were both treated with lysine restriction, but PLP, thiamine, vitamin E, ubidecarenone, idebenone, and creatine were administered only to our patient. We hypothesize that the impressive electroclinical responsiveness observed in our patient could be due mainly to the administration of PLP. The rationale for this treatment was the fact that pipecolic acid was high, and consequently piperidine-6-carboxylate (P6C) could also be transiently high and condense with PLP via the Knoevenagel reaction, as happens in patients with pyridoxine-dependent epilepsy (ALDH7A1 mutations)	疾病治疗参考-PMID27940755	金伟伟	V1
Metabolism-Fatty Acid Oxidation Disorders	35	ACADS	Short Chain Acyl-CoA Dehydrogenase Deficiency	短链酰基辅酶A脱氢酶缺乏症	Short Chain Acyl-CoA Dehydrogenase Deficiency	AR	Short-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase (SCAD) deficiency is a condition that prevents the body from converting certain fats into energy, especially during periods without food (fasting). Signs and symptoms may appear during infancy or early childhood or adulthood .The clinical findings range from severe (dysmorphic facial features, feeding difficulties/failure to thrive, metabolic acidosis, ketotic hypoglycemia, lethargy, developmental delay, seizures, hypotonia, dystonia, and myopathy) to normal. In the largest series of affected individuals published to date, 20% had failure to thrive, feeding difficulties, and hypotonia; 22% had seizures, and 30% had hypotonia without seizures. In contrast, the majority of infants with SCAD deficiency have been detected by expanded newborn screening, and the great majority of these infants remain asymptomatic. As most individuals with SCAD deficiency are asymptomatic, the need for treatment when well is unclear. To prevent the primary manifestations, an age-appropriate heart-healthy diet and avoidance of too long fasting are needed. This disorder is thought to affect approximately 1 in 40,000 to 100,000 newborns.	Most patients are asymptomatic and no treatment is needed. Some symptomatic patients are given riboflavin and follow a low fat/high carbohydrate diet and avoid fasting. Acute metabolic acidosis can be treated by the administration of high levels of dextrose (with or without insulin) and IV fluids. Seizures can be treated with anticonvulsants but valproate should be avoided. Pregnancies should be monitored for complications such as acute fatty liver of pregnancy and preeclampsia (see these terms). Follow-up at a metabolic clinic should include the regular assessment of growth and development and nutritional status of patients.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Fatty Acid Oxidation Disorders	2108	ETFA	Glutaric acidemia II	戊二酸血症ⅡA型	Glutaric acidemia IIA	AR	Glutaric acidemia type I is an inherited disorder in which the body is unable to process certain proteins properly. Excessive levels of these amino acids and their intermediate breakdown products can accumulate and cause damage to the brain, particularly the basal ganglia, which are regions that help control movement. In most cases, signs and symptoms first occur in infancy or early childhood, but in a small number of affected individuals, the disorder first becomes apparent in adolescence or adulthood.Glutaric acidemia type I occurs in approximately 1 of every 30,000 to 40,000 individuals. Strict dietary control may help limit progression of the neurological damage. Glutaric acidemia type II is an inherited disorder that interferes with the body's ability to break down proteins and fats to produce energy. Incompletely processed proteins and fats can build up in the body and cause the blood and tissues to become too acidic (metabolic acidosis).Glutaric acidemia type II usually appears in infancy or early childhood as a sudden episode called a metabolic crisis, in which acidosis and low blood sugar (hypoglycemia) cause weakness, behavior changes such as poor feeding and decreased activity, and vomiting. These metabolic crises, which can be life-threatening, may be triggered by common childhood illnesses or other stresses.	Treatment for the more severe phenotypes involves restriction of both fat and protein and reliance on a high carbohydrate diet. Strict avoidance of fasting and of other precipitating stresses is essential. Emergency regimens should be available for any metabolic decompensation. Riboflavin supplementation of 100-400 mg/day is a very effective treatment for patients with rr-MADD as is CoQ10 supplementation in some. For moderately severe cases, 3-hydroxybutyrate has been used successfully, but further studies are still needed.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V2	包装	1个基因对应1个疾病		疾病治疗参考-NORD (National Organization for Rare Disorders) 
Metabolism-Fatty Acid Oxidation Disorders	2109	ETFB		戊二酸血症ⅡB型	Glutaric acidemia IIB	AR	Glutaric acidemia type I is an inherited disorder in which the body is unable to process certain proteins properly. Excessive levels of these amino acids and their intermediate breakdown products can accumulate and cause damage to the brain, particularly the basal ganglia, which are regions that help control movement. In most cases, signs and symptoms first occur in infancy or early childhood, but in a small number of affected individuals, the disorder first becomes apparent in adolescence or adulthood.Glutaric acidemia type I occurs in approximately 1 of every 30,000 to 40,000 individuals. Strict dietary control may help limit progression of the neurological damage. Glutaric acidemia type II is an inherited disorder that interferes with the body's ability to break down proteins and fats to produce energy. Incompletely processed proteins and fats can build up in the body and cause the blood and tissues to become too acidic (metabolic acidosis).Glutaric acidemia type II usually appears in infancy or early childhood as a sudden episode called a metabolic crisis, in which acidosis and low blood sugar (hypoglycemia) cause weakness, behavior changes such as poor feeding and decreased activity, and vomiting. These metabolic crises, which can be life-threatening, may be triggered by common childhood illnesses or other stresses.	Treatment for the more severe phenotypes involves restriction of both fat and protein and reliance on a high carbohydrate diet. Strict avoidance of fasting and of other precipitating stresses is essential. Emergency regimens should be available for any metabolic decompensation. Riboflavin supplementation of 100-400 mg/day is a very effective treatment for patients with rr-MADD as is CoQ10 supplementation in some. For moderately severe cases, 3-hydroxybutyrate has been used successfully, but further studies are still needed.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V2	包装	1个基因对应1个疾病		疾病治疗参考-NORD (National Organization for Rare Disorders) 
Metabolism-Fatty Acid Oxidation Disorders	2110	ETFDH		戊二酸血症ⅡC型	Glutaric acidemia IIC	AR	Glutaric acidemia type I is an inherited disorder in which the body is unable to process certain proteins properly. Excessive levels of these amino acids and their intermediate breakdown products can accumulate and cause damage to the brain, particularly the basal ganglia, which are regions that help control movement. In most cases, signs and symptoms first occur in infancy or early childhood, but in a small number of affected individuals, the disorder first becomes apparent in adolescence or adulthood.Glutaric acidemia type I occurs in approximately 1 of every 30,000 to 40,000 individuals. Strict dietary control may help limit progression of the neurological damage. Glutaric acidemia type II is an inherited disorder that interferes with the body's ability to break down proteins and fats to produce energy. Incompletely processed proteins and fats can build up in the body and cause the blood and tissues to become too acidic (metabolic acidosis).Glutaric acidemia type II usually appears in infancy or early childhood as a sudden episode called a metabolic crisis, in which acidosis and low blood sugar (hypoglycemia) cause weakness, behavior changes such as poor feeding and decreased activity, and vomiting. These metabolic crises, which can be life-threatening, may be triggered by common childhood illnesses or other stresses.	Treatment for the more severe phenotypes involves restriction of both fat and protein and reliance on a high carbohydrate diet. Strict avoidance of fasting and of other precipitating stresses is essential. Emergency regimens should be available for any metabolic decompensation. Riboflavin supplementation of 100-400 mg/day is a very effective treatment for patients with rr-MADD as is CoQ10 supplementation in some. For moderately severe cases, 3-hydroxybutyrate has been used successfully, but further studies are still needed.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Fatty Acid Oxidation Disorders	37	ACADVL	Acyl-CoA Dehydrogenase Deficiency,Very Long-Chain	极长链酰基辅酶A脱氢酶缺乏症	Acyl-CoA Dehydrogenase Deficiency,Very Long-Chain	AR	Very long-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase (VLCAD) deficiency (VLCADD) is an inherited disorder of mitochondrial long-chain fatty acid oxidation with a variable presentation including: cardiomyopathy, hypoketotic hypoglycemia, liver disease, exercise intolerance and rhabdomyolysis. VLCADD is a clinically heterogeneous disease, with 3 major phenotypes. Severe infantile VLCADD has an early onset, usually within the first 3-12 months of life and as early as the neonatal period, with high mortality and a high incidence of hypoketotic hypoglycaemia, liver disease, cardiac arrhythmias and cardiomyopathy. Pericardial effusion is also reported. Moderately severe infantile/childhood VLCADD has a later onset (early neonatal period to early childhood) and usually presents with hypoketotic hypoglycemia, lower mortality and rarely cardiomyopathy. Late-onset myopathic VLCADD presents in older children and young adults (usually >10 years of age) with isolated skeletal muscle involvement, exercise intolerance, myalgia, rhabdomyolysis and myoglobinuria usually triggered by exercise, fasting, cold/heat and/or stress but viral infection can also precipitate/exacerbate this presentation. In rare cases it can lead to renal failure and can be fatal. Some patients presenting with myopathic disease may have a previous history of hypoglycemia in infancy/childhood.	Dietary treatment along with strict avoidance of fasting is essential in infants/children and involves a low long-chain fat diet in combination with medium chain triglycerides. An emergency regimen should be available for each patient to use when they cannot tolerate their prescribed diet. Medical treatment should be sought immediately if there is evidence of decompensation. Those with a milder phenotype should limit exercise and cold/heat exposure and avoid fasting. Treatment with bezafibrate offers potential benefit in myopathic patients with residual enzyme activity, although this awaits full clinical evaluation.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Fatty Acid Oxidation Disorders	788	SLC25A20	Carnitine-Acylcarnitine Translocase Deficiency	肉碱-酰基肉碱移位酶缺乏症	Carnitine-Acylcarnitine Translocase Deficiency	AR	Carnitine-acylcarnitine translocase (CACT) deficiency is a condition that prevents the body from using certain fats for energy, particularly during periods without food (fasting).Signs and symptoms of this disorder usually begin soon after birth and may include breathing problems, seizures, and an irregular heartbeat (arrhythmia). Affected individuals typically have low blood sugar (hypoglycemia) and a low level of ketones, which are produced during the breakdown of fats and used for energy. Many infants with CACT deficiency do not survive the newborn period. Some affected individuals have a less severe form of the condition and do not develop signs and symptoms until early childhood. These individuals are at risk for liver failure, nervous system damage, coma, and sudden death.Patients may need to be on a restricted diet in order to avoid certain foods that his or her body cannot break down.Taking prescription L-carnitine supplements can help patients break down fats for energy and remove harmful substances from the body.CACT deficiency is very rare; at least 30 cases have been reported	Strict avoidance of fasting along with the institution of a low long-chain fat diet and medium chain triglyceride (MCT) supplementation is necessary. However, the MCT formula should be as low as possible in C10 and C12 fatty acids as high dietary intake of these can lead to decompensation. Carnitine supplementation is also recommended. During an acute episode, intravenous glucose is administered in order to inhibit lipolysis.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Fatty Acid Oxidation Disorders	1374	CPT1A	Carnitine Palmitoyltransferase Deficiency	肉碱棕榈酰转移酶1缺乏症	Carnitine Palmitoyltransferase I Deficiency	AR	Carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1A (CPT-1A) deficiency is an inborn error of metabolism that affects mitochondrial oxidation of long chain fatty acids (LCFA) in the liver and kidneys, and is characterized by recurrent attacks of fasting-induced hypoketotic hypoglycemia and risk of liver failure.CPT-1A-deficient patients can also present with hepatic encephalopathy with loss of consciousness, seizures, coma, or even sudden death. There may be a risk of progression to liver failure. Patients with severe CPT-1A deficiency may also have renal tubular acidosis.	Treatment consists primarily of avoidance of fasting. Additional measures may be considered, including nighttime feeds with uncooked cornstarch during childhood and/or a low-fat diet supplemented with medium chain triglycerides that can be metabolized by mitochondria independently from the carnitine cycle. Regular surveillance of liver enzymes and function is necessary.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Fatty Acid Oxidation Disorders	1376	CPT2		肉碱棕榈酰转移酶2缺乏症	Carnitine Palmitoyltransferase II Deficiency	AR	Carnitine palmitoyltransferase II (CPT II) deficiency is a disorder of long-chain fatty-acid oxidation. The three clinical presentations are: lethal neonatal form, severe infantile hepatocardiomuscular form, and myopathic form (which is usually mild and can manifest from infancy to adulthood).Affected infants experience hypoketotic hypoglycemia, liver and respiratory failure and can present with cardiomyopathy, muscle hypotonia, liver calcification, cystic dysplastic kidneys and malformations of the brain due to a neuronal migration defect. Seizures and coma can occur as well as cardiac arrhythmias that generally lead to cardiac arrest in the perinatal/ early infantile period. Death occurs within days to months.	The myopathic form of CPT II has a good prognosis. The severe infantile form may lead to sudden death during infancy due, in general, to paroxysmal cardiac arrhythmias. The neonatal form is almost always lethal during the first months of life.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Fatty Acid Oxidation Disorders	3030	HADHA	Trifunctional Protein Deficiency	三官能团蛋白缺乏症	Trifunctional Protein Deficiency	AR	Trifunctional protein deficiency(TFP) is a rare condition that prevents the body from converting certain fats to energy, particularly during periods without food (fasting).Signs and symptoms of trifunctional protein deficiency may begin during infancy or later in life. Features that occur during infancy include feeding difficulties, lack of energy (lethargy), low blood sugar (hypoglycemia), weak muscle tone (hypotonia), and liver problems. Infants with this disorder are also at high risk for serious heart problems, breathing difficulties, coma, and sudden death. Signs and symptoms of trifunctional protein deficiency that may begin after infancy include hypotonia, muscle pain, a breakdown of muscle tissue, and a loss of sensation in the extremities (peripheral neuropathy). Treatment will need to be on a restricted diet in order to avoid certain high-fat foods that your baby’s body cannot break down. A nutritionist is someone who can help plan a specialized diet for your baby. can help you plan a diet that keeps your baby healthy while giving him or her the nutrients necessary for healthy growth.Taking L-carnitine can help your baby with TFP break down fats and remove harmful substances from the body. You will need to keep your baby out of extremely hot and cold temperatures. Extreme temperatures can promote muscle breakdown.Your child has childhood or mild trifunctional protein deficiency (TFP), he or she can live a healthy life with the help of treatment. Some children could still have hypoglycemic (low blood sugar) episodes, even with treatment.Babies with early TFP may benefit from treatments. However, most babies are at risk of dying young from heart and breathing problems, even with treatment.Trifunctional protein deficiency is a rare disorder; its incidence is unknown.	Treatment involves adherence to a low fat diet with restriction of long chain fatty acid intake and substitution with medium chain fatty acids. Fasting and exposure to environmental extremes must be strictly avoided and exercise should be limited.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Fatty Acid Oxidation Disorders	3032	HADHB		三官能团蛋白缺乏症	Trifunctional Protein Deficiency	AR	Trifunctional protein deficiency(TFP) is a rare condition that prevents the body from converting certain fats to energy, particularly during periods without food (fasting).Signs and symptoms of trifunctional protein deficiency may begin during infancy or later in life. Features that occur during infancy include feeding difficulties, lack of energy (lethargy), low blood sugar (hypoglycemia), weak muscle tone (hypotonia), and liver problems. Infants with this disorder are also at high risk for serious heart problems, breathing difficulties, coma, and sudden death. Signs and symptoms of trifunctional protein deficiency that may begin after infancy include hypotonia, muscle pain, a breakdown of muscle tissue, and a loss of sensation in the extremities (peripheral neuropathy). Treatment will need to be on a restricted diet in order to avoid certain high-fat foods that your baby’s body cannot break down. A nutritionist is someone who can help plan a specialized diet for your baby. can help you plan a diet that keeps your baby healthy while giving him or her the nutrients necessary for healthy growth.Taking L-carnitine can help your baby with TFP break down fats and remove harmful substances from the body. You will need to keep your baby out of extremely hot and cold temperatures. Extreme temperatures can promote muscle breakdown.Your child has childhood or mild trifunctional protein deficiency (TFP), he or she can live a healthy life with the help of treatment. Some children could still have hypoglycemic (low blood sugar) episodes, even with treatment.Babies with early TFP may benefit from treatments. However, most babies are at risk of dying young from heart and breathing problems, even with treatment.Trifunctional protein deficiency is a rare disorder; its incidence is unknown.	Treatment involves adherence to a low fat diet with restriction of long chain fatty acid intake and substitution with medium chain fatty acids. Fasting and exposure to environmental extremes must be strictly avoided and exercise should be limited.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Fatty Acid Oxidation Disorders	6584	SLC22A5	Primary Carnitine Deficiency	原发性肉碱缺乏症	Primary Carnitine Deficiency	AR	Primary carnitine deficiency is a condition that prevents the body from using certain fats for energy, particularly during periods without food (fasting). Carnitine, a natural substance acquired mostly through the diet, is used by cells to process fats and produce energy.Signs and symptoms of primary carnitine deficiency typically appear during infancy or early childhood and can include severe brain dysfunction (encephalopathy), a weakened and enlarged heart (cardiomyopathy), confusion, vomiting, muscle weakness, and low blood sugar (hypoglycemia). Some people with primary carnitine deficiency are asymptomatic. All individuals with this disorder are at risk for heart failure, liver problems, coma, and sudden death.Problems related to primary carnitine deficiency can be triggered by periods of fasting or by illnesses such as viral infections. Carnitine therapy is the standard treatment. Oral levocarnitine (L-carnitine) supplementation of 100-400 mg/kg/day is usually required. The prognosis is extremely good as long as oral carnitine supplementation is maintained. The incidence of primary carnitine deficiency in the general population is approximately 1 in 100,000 newborns.	Carnitine therapy is the standard treatment. Oral levocarnitine (L-carnitine) supplementation of 100-400 mg/kg/day in three divided doses is usually required. Oral carnitine treatment is required for lifelong treatment of the disease.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Fatty Acid Oxidation Disorders	3030	HADHA	Long-Chain 3-Hydroxyacyl-Coa Dehydrogenase Deficiency	长链3-羟酰辅酶A脱氢酶缺乏症	Long-Chain 3-Hydroxyacyl-Coa Dehydrogenase Deficiency	AR	3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency is an inherited condition that prevents the body from converting certain fats to energy, particularly during prolonged periods without food (fasting). Initial signs and symptoms of this disorder typically occur during infancy or early childhood and can include poor appetite, vomiting, diarrhea, and lack of energy (lethargy). Affected individuals can also have muscle weakness (hypotonia), liver problems, low blood sugar (hypoglycemia), and abnormally high levels of insulin (hyperinsulinism). Individuals with 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency are also at risk for complications such as seizures, life-threatening heart and breathing problems, coma, and sudden death. The exact incidence of 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency is unknown; it has been reported in only a small number of people worldwide.	Treatment involves strict adherence to a low fat diet with restriction of long chain fatty acid intake and substitution with medium chain fatty acids and avoidance of fasting as well as limitation of exercise or exposure to environmental extremes. An emergency regimen should be available for all patients and medical attention should be sought at the first sign of any decompensation. Treatment is lifelong.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Fatty Acid Oxidation Disorders	34	ACADM	Medium-Chain Acyl-Coenzyme A Dehydrogenase Deficiency	中链酰基辅酶A脱氢酶缺乏症	Medium-Chain Acyl-Coenzyme A Dehydrogenase Deficiency	AR	Medium-Chain Acyl-CoA Dehydrogenase (MCAD) deficiency is a condition that prevents the body from converting certain fats to energy. It typically appears during infancy or early childhood. It characterized by vomiting,lethargy and hypoglycemia. People with MCAD deficiency are at risk for serious complications such as seizures, breathing difficulties, liver problems, brain damage, coma, and sudden death. Most important treatment is to give simple carbohydrates by mouth or IV if needed. The prognosis is excellent once the diagnosis is established and frequent feedings are instituted to avoid any prolonged period of fasting. The prevalence of MCAD is 1:17,000-1:4,900.	Strict avoidance of fasting is the primary objective. Medium chain triglycerides should be avoided but no other special dietary restrictions are required. Guidelines are available for the safe interval time between feeds for infants and young children. The use of low dose carnitine supplementation in patients who develop a low blood carnitine status remains controversial. In symptomatic patients, simple carbohydrates are given by mouth (glucose tablets) or intravenously until blood glucose level is maintained at above 5 mmol/L. During intercurrent infections, an emergency regimen should be made available. Immediate medical attention is needed in case of decompensation. Artificial sweeteners should be avoided.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Fatty Acid Oxidation Disorders		ACAA1	Medium chain 3-ketoacyl-CoA thiolase deficiency	中链3-酮酰基辅酶A硫解酶缺乏症	Medium chain 3-ketoacyl-CoA thiolase deficiency	AR	Medium chain 3-ketoacyl-CoA thiolase deficiency (MCKAT), the rarest of the many fatty acid oxidation disorders, is a defect in the cellular pathway for breaking down fats. When there are MCKAT defects, the last step in the final round of the breakdown of fats is reduced or missing completely. Recent fatty acid oxidation research has shown that this step is an important controller of the rate of fat entry into the fat breakdown pathways.In the first reported case, a 2-day-old infant showed signs of:vomiting, dehydration,acidic blood (metabolic acidosis),liver disease,severe muscle breakdown (rhabdomyolysis),reddish-brown urine (myoglobinuria).Later patients have shown other symptoms, including:low blood sugar (hypoglycemia),vomiting,floppiness (poor muscle tone),coma if the time between feedings is too long (fasting intolerance),heart malfunctions (cardiomyopathy).	The mainstay of treatment consists of dietary interventions such as the avoidance of fasting and administration of carbohydrates during increased metabolic stress.	疾病治疗参考-https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC8469775/，英文疾病简介参考https://informnetwork.org/mckat/	金伟伟	V2(全外疾病库无疾病）	包装，没位点，对症解读			参考华大串联质谱疾病手册
Metabolism-Fatty Acid Oxidation Disorders		ACAA2		中链3-酮酰基辅酶A硫解酶缺乏症	Medium chain 3-ketoacyl-CoA thiolase deficiency	AR	Medium chain 3-ketoacyl-CoA thiolase deficiency (MCKAT), the rarest of the many fatty acid oxidation disorders, is a defect in the cellular pathway for breaking down fats. When there are MCKAT defects, the last step in the final round of the breakdown of fats is reduced or missing completely. Recent fatty acid oxidation research has shown that this step is an important controller of the rate of fat entry into the fat breakdown pathways.In the first reported case, a 2-day-old infant showed signs of:vomiting, dehydration,acidic blood (metabolic acidosis),liver disease,severe muscle breakdown (rhabdomyolysis),reddish-brown urine (myoglobinuria).Later patients have shown other symptoms, including:low blood sugar (hypoglycemia),vomiting,floppiness (poor muscle tone),coma if the time between feedings is too long (fasting intolerance),heart malfunctions (cardiomyopathy).	The mainstay of treatment consists of dietary interventions such as the avoidance of fasting and administration of carbohydrates during increased metabolic stress.		金伟伟	V2(全外疾病库无疾病）	包装，没位点，对症解读			参考华大串联质谱疾病手册
Metabolism-Fatty Acid Oxidation Disorders	3033	HADH	3-Hydroxyacyl-Coa Dehydrogenase Deficiency	3-羟酰基辅酶A脱氢酶缺乏	3-Hydroxyacyl-Coa Dehydrogenase Deficiency	AR	A metabolic disorder with various clinical presentations including hypoglycemia, hepatoencephalopathy, myopathy or cardiomyopathy, and in some cases sudden death.	Treatment involves strict adherence to a low fat diet with restriction of long chain fatty acid intake and substitution with medium chain fatty acids and avoidance of fasting as well as limitation of exercise or exposure to environmental extremes. An emergency regimen should be available for all patients and medical attention should be sought at the first sign of any decompensation. Treatment is lifelong.	疾病治疗参考-长链3-羟酰辅酶A脱氢酶缺乏症	金伟伟	V2	包装	1个基因对应多个疾病，需确定包装疾病		参考华大串联质谱疾病手册
Metabolism-Fatty Acid Oxidation Disorders	23474	ETHE1	Ethylmalonic  Encephalopathy	乙基丙二酸脑病	Ethylmalonic  Encephalopathy	AR	Ethylmalonic encephalopathy is an inherited disorder that affects several body systems, particularly the nervous system. Neurologic signs and symptoms include progressively delayed development, weak muscle tone (hypotonia), seizures, and abnormal movements. The body's network of blood vessels (the vascular system) is also affected. Children with this disorder may experience rashes of tiny red spots (petechiae) caused by bleeding under the skin and blue discoloration in the hands and feet due to reduced oxygen in the blood (acrocyanosis). Chronic diarrhea is another common feature of ethylmalonic encephalopathy。There is no cure for ethylmalonic encephalopathy.  Treatment includes supportive care for symptoms. Individuals with ethylmalonic encephalopathy usually do not live past ten years of age。About 30 individuals with this condition have been identified worldwide, mostly in Mediterranean and Arab populations。	Patients with EE have been treated more or less successfully with L-carnitine, riboflavin and/or Q10 supplements, as well as other vitamin therapies, which may improve energy metabolism and alleviate oxidative stress. As the function of the protein encoded by the ETHE1 gene is still not known, a more rational treatment remains to be developed.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V2	包装	1个基因对应1个疾病		参考华大串联质谱疾病手册
Metabolism-Lysosomal Storage Disease	2581	GALC	Krabbe Disease	Krabbe病	Krabbe Disease	AR	Krabbe disease, also known as infantile familial diffuse sclerosis, leads to an inherited metabolic diseases that mainly involve brain white matter. Krabbe disease’s infantile form usually attack in 3-6 months after birth, manifested as irritability, feeding difficulties, developmental delay, nystagmus, strabismus, muscle hypertonicity, spasticity et al; Late-onset forms’ onset age ranges from 15 months to 10 years, but most before 5. It has a similar clinical phenotype with infantile form, including walking difficulties, weakness, loss of vision, mental deterioration et al. No specific treatment suits for this disease, supportive care and symptomatic treatment are mainly used. Hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) in presymptomatic infants and older individuals with mild symptoms may improve and preserve cognitive function[1,2]. Krabbe disease has a poor prognosis, infantile patients often died within 1 year, late-onset patients may survive up to 10. Its incidence in the United States and Europe is about 1:10 0000 [3].	Treatment is currently limited to hematopoietic stem cell transplantation in pre-symptomatic infantile patients and mildly affected late-onset patients. It has been shown to slow the progression of the disease. Most individuals predicted to have infantile Krabbe disease and treated before 4 weeks of age can live into the second decade with mostly preserved cognitive functioning, but with difficulty in walking and in expressive language.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Lysosomal Storage Disease	2717	GLA	Fabry Disease	法布雷病	Fabry Disease	XL	Fabry disease (FD) is a progressive, inherited, multisystemic lysosomal storage disease characterized by specific neurological, cutaneous, renal, cardiovascular, cochleo-vestibular and cerebrovascular manifestations. The clinical picture covers a wide spectrum ranging from mild cases in heterozygous females, to severe cases in classically affected hemizygous males with no residual alpha-galactosidase A activity. These patients may have all the characteristic neurological (pain), cutaneous (angiokeratoma), renal (proteinuria, kidney failure), cardiovascular (cardiomyopathy, arrhythmia), cochleo-vestibular and cerebrovascular (transient ischemic attacks, strokes) signs of the disease. Female patients may have very mild to severe symptoms. Pain is a common early symptom of FD (chronic pain characterized by burning and tingling paresthesia and occasional episodic crises characterized by agonizing burning pain). Pain may resolve in adulthood. Anhidrosis or hypohidrosis may occur causing heat and exercise intolerance. Other signs include angiokeratoma, corneal changes, tinnitus, chronic fatigue, cardiac and cerebrovascular abnormalities (left ventricular hypertrophy, arrhythmia, angina), dyspnea, and nephropathy. At present, patients with this disease can take symptomatic treatment, as well as enzyme replacement therapy. Fabry disease has a general prognosis. It is estimated that the prevalence is between 1:3,100-1:4,600.	A disease-specific therapeutic option (enzyme replacement therapy using in vitro engineered alpha-galactosidase A) has been available since 2001 and meta-analyses of its long-term efficacy suggest promising outcomes. Enzyme enhancement with a pharmacological chaperone is approved in patients with amenable GLA variants following recent clinical trials. Plant-derived enzyme replacement therapy, substrate reduction therapy (SRT) and gene therapy using adeno-associated viral vectors are currently under investigation in clinical trials. Conventional management consists of pain relief with analgesic drugs, nephroprotection (angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors or angiotensin receptors blockers), antiarrhythmic agents, pace-maker or implantable cardioverter defibrillator, dialysis, and kidney transplant.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1		XLR改为XL	XLR改为XL
Metabolism-Lysosomal Storage Disease	6609	SMPD1	Niemann-Pick Disease	尼曼-匹克病A/B型	Niemann-Pick Disease A/B	AR	Niemann-Pick disease types A and B are caused by an inherited deficiency of acid sphingomyelinase activity. The clinical phenotype ranges from a severe infantile form with neurologic degeneration resulting in death usually by 3 years of age (type A) to a later-onset nonneurologic form (type B) that is compatible with survival into adulthood. Since intermediate cases also have been reported, the disease is best regarded as a single entity with a clinical spectrum.A phenotypic continuum exists between type A (basic neurovisceral) and type B (purely visceral) forms of Niemann-Pick disease, and the intermediate types encompass a cluster of variants combining clinical features of both types A and B.	Currently, only supportive care is available for patients with NPD-A. The disease is best managed by an interprofessional team that includes a gastroenterologist, endocrinologist, neurologist, and geneticist. Also, family care, nursing support, and social support are an integral part of the management.<br/>Currently, only supportive care is available for patients with NPD-B and includes management of coagulopathy and end-stage liver disease manifestations; supplemental oxygen for symptomatic pulmonary disease, and treatment of hyperlipidemia and osteopenia/osteoporosis. Enzyme replacement therapy with recombinant human acid sphingomyelinase (ERT) is in clinical development for the treatment of the non-neurologic manifestations of the disease.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	金伟伟	V1
Metabolism-Lysosomal Storage Disease	4864	NPC1		尼曼-匹克病C1型	Niemann-Pick Disease type C1	AR	A lysosomal storage disorder that affects the viscera and the central nervous system. It is due to defective intracellular processing and transport of low-density lipoprotein derived cholesterol. It causes accumulation of cholesterol in lysosomes, with delayed induction of cholesterol homeostatic reactions. Niemann-Pick disease type C1 has a highly variable clinical phenotype. Clinical features include variable hepatosplenomegaly and severe progressive neurological dysfunction such as ataxia, dystonia and dementia. The age of onset can vary from infancy to late adulthood. An allelic variant of Niemann-Pick disease type C1 is found in people with Nova Scotia ancestry. Patients with the Nova Scotian clinical variant are less severely affected.	Management of NPDC remains largely symptomatic. Treatment with an iminosugar inhibitor of glucosylceramide synthase (miglustat) was approved for the management of neurologic manifestations of NPDC in several countries. There are presently some therapies under investigation, including 2-hydroxypropyl-beta-cyclodextrin and arimoclomol.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Lysosomal Storage Disease	10577	NPC2		尼曼-匹克病C2型	Niemann-Pick Disease type C2	AR	A lysosomal storage disorder that affects the viscera and the central nervous system. It is due to defective intracellular processing and transport of low-density lipoprotein derived cholesterol. It causes accumulation of cholesterol in lysosomes, with delayed induction of cholesterol homeostatic reactions. Niemann-Pick disease type C2 has a highly variable clinical phenotype. Clinical features include variable hepatosplenomegaly and severe progressive neurological dysfunction such as ataxia, dystonia and dementia. The age of onset can vary from infancy to late adulthood.	Management of NPDC remains largely symptomatic. Treatment with an iminosugar inhibitor of glucosylceramide synthase (miglustat) was approved for the management of neurologic manifestations of NPDC in several countries. There are presently some therapies under investigation, including 2-hydroxypropyl-beta-cyclodextrin and arimoclomol.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Lysosomal Storage Disease	3425	IDUA	Mucopolysaccharidisis	黏多糖贮积症Ⅰ型	Mucopolysaccharidosis type I	AR	A mild form of mucopolysaccharidosis type 1, a rare lysosomal storage disease characterized by progressive physical deterioration with urinary excretion of dermatan sulfate and heparan sulfate. Patients with MPS1S may have little or no neurological involvement, normal stature and life span, but present development of joints stiffness, mild hepatosplenomegaly, aortic valve disease and corneal clouding.	The genotype should be established at diagnosis in all patients as this may aid in determining the therapeutic approach. Symptomatic treatment should be proposed by a multidisciplinary team. Hematopoietic stem cell transplantation has been shown to be useful in some patients. Treatment with the enzyme substitute (laronidase) obtained EU marketing authorization as an orphan drug in 2003. All patients including those who have not received a transplant or whose graft has failed may benefit significantly from enzyme replacement therapy (ERT). Given as weekly infusions, it leads to improvement of lung function and joint mobility.	疾病治疗参考-安馨可2019	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Lysosomal Storage Disease	3423	IDS		黏多糖贮积症Ⅱ型	Mucopolysaccharidosis II	XLR	Mucopolysaccharidosis type II (MPS II), also known as Hunter syndrome, is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. At birth, individuals with MPS II do not display any features of the condition. Between ages 2 and 4, they develop full lips, large rounded cheeks, a broad nose, and an enlarged tongue (macroglossia). The vocal cords also enlarge, which results in a deep, hoarse voice. Narrowing of the airway causes frequent upper respiratory infections and short pauses in breathing during sleep (sleep apnea). Individuals with this disorder often have a large head (macrocephaly), a buildup of fluid in the brain (hydrocephalus), an enlarged liver and spleen (hepatosplenomegaly), a soft out-pouching around the belly-button (umbilical hernia) or lower abdomen (inguinal hernia), thick skin that is not very stretchy. Most people with this disorder develop hearing loss and have recurrent ear infections. Some individuals with MPS II develop problems with the light-sensitive tissue in the back of the eye (retina) and have reduced vision. There are two types of MPS II, called the severe and mild types. people with severe MPS II also experience a decline in intellectual function and a more rapid disease progression. MPS II occurs in approximately 1 in 100,000 to 1 in 170,000 males. Mutations in the IDS gene cause MPS II.	All patients should be considered for weekly intravenous enzyme replacement therapy (ERT) which has been shown to alleviate somatic symptoms. Cranial shunting should be performed to relieve cases of hydrocephalus. Hernia repair, tonsillectomy and adenoidectomy (to liberate the upper respiratory tract) and in some cases positive pressure ventilation or tracheostomy may be required. Cardiac valve or hip replacement and carpal tunnel release may be necessary over time. Extensive palliative care is required, patients must be regularly evaluated by echocardiogram, respiratory function, full radiologic examination to identify dysostosis multiplex, cranial and cervical MRI with or without lumbar puncture to assess cerebrospinal fluid pressure, hearing tests, eye exams and nerve conduction velocity tests.	疾病治疗参考-安馨可2019	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Lysosomal Storage Disease	6448	SGSH		黏多糖贮积症ⅢA型	Mucopolysaccharidosis type IIIA	AR	A severe form of mucopolysaccharidosis type 3, an autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disease due to impaired degradation of heparan sulfate. MPS3 is characterized by severe central nervous system degeneration, but only mild somatic disease. Onset of clinical features usually occurs between 2 and 6 years; severe neurologic degeneration occurs in most patients between 6 and 10 years of age, and death occurs typically during the second or third decade of life. MPS3A is characterized by earlier onset, rapid progression of symptoms and shorter survival.	Allogenic bone marrow grafts are contraindicated as they do not slow the mental deterioration, even in patients engrafted pre-symptomatically. Gene therapy is currently under investigation in animal models for the IIIA and IIIB subtypes. The neurological degradation accompanied by multiple complications requires a multidisciplinary management to allow adapted symptomatic treatment.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Lysosomal Storage Disease	4669	NAGLU		黏多糖贮积症ⅢB型	Mucopolysaccharidisis type IIIB	AR	A form of mucopolysaccharidosis type 3, an autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disease due to impaired degradation of heparan sulfate. MPS3 is characterized by severe central nervous system degeneration, but only mild somatic disease. Onset of clinical features usually occurs between 2 and 6 years; severe neurologic degeneration occurs in most patients between 6 and 10 years of age, and death occurs typically during the second or third decade of life.	Allogenic bone marrow grafts are contraindicated as they do not slow the mental deterioration, even in patients engrafted pre-symptomatically. Gene therapy is currently under investigation in animal models for the IIIA and IIIB subtypes. The neurological degradation accompanied by multiple complications requires a multidisciplinary management to allow adapted symptomatic treatment.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Lysosomal Storage Disease	138050	HGSNAT		黏多糖贮积症ⅢC型	Mucopolysaccharidosis type IIIC	AR	A form of mucopolysaccharidosis type 3, an autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disease due to impaired degradation of heparan sulfate. MPS3 is characterized by severe central nervous system degeneration, but only mild somatic disease. Onset of clinical features usually occurs between 2 and 6 years; severe neurologic degeneration occurs in most patients between 6 and 10 years of age, and death occurs typically during the second or third decade of life.	Allogenic bone marrow grafts are contraindicated as they do not slow the mental deterioration, even in patients engrafted pre-symptomatically. Gene therapy is currently under investigation in animal models for the IIIA and IIIB subtypes. The neurological degradation accompanied by multiple complications requires a multidisciplinary management to allow adapted symptomatic treatment.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V2	包装	1个基因对应多个疾病，需确定包装疾病		GeneReviews+PMID: 26347037
Metabolism-Lysosomal Storage Disease	2588	GALNS		黏多糖贮积症ⅣA型	Mucopolysaccharidosis type IVA	AR	A form of mucopolysaccharidosis type 4, an autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disease characterized by intracellular accumulation of keratan sulfate and chondroitin-6-sulfate. Key clinical features include short stature, skeletal dysplasia, dental anomalies, and corneal clouding. Intelligence is normal and there is no direct central nervous system involvement, although the skeletal changes may result in neurologic complications. There is variable severity, but patients with the severe phenotype usually do not survive past the second or third decade of life.	The treatment remains symptomatic (prosthesis, surgery, neck consolidation by vertebral fusion, tracheal vascular reconstruction for near-fatal tracheal obstruction, walking aids or wheelchair). Non-invasive assessment of airway obstruction at an early stage is critical. General anesthesia may be problematic due to intubation difficulties. Imaging of the cervical spine is commonly required. Clinical therapies include hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) and enzyme replacement therapy (ERT), both of which lead to the partial restoration of the clinical phenotype but are not reported to improve skeletal manifestations. ERT with elosulfase alfa is approved for MPS IVA and may be associated with increased endurance and pulmonary function, and reduced urinary excretion of KS. HSCT has been used on over 30 MPS IVA patients, however, further studies are required to evaluate therapeutic efficacy. In MPS IVB, management and treatment remains supportive and surgical.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Lysosomal Storage Disease	2720	GLB1		黏多糖贮积症ⅣB型	Mucopolysaccharidosis type IVB	AR	A form of mucopolysaccharidosis type 4, an autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disease characterized by intracellular accumulation of keratan sulfate and chondroitin-6-sulfate. Key clinical features include short stature, skeletal dysplasia, dental anomalies, and corneal clouding. Intelligence is normal and there is no direct central nervous system involvement, although the skeletal changes may result in neurologic complications. There is variable severity, but patients with the severe phenotype usually do not survive past the second or third decade of life./	The treatment remains symptomatic (prosthesis, surgery, neck consolidation by vertebral fusion, tracheal vascular reconstruction for near-fatal tracheal obstruction, walking aids or wheelchair). Non-invasive assessment of airway obstruction at an early stage is critical. General anesthesia may be problematic due to intubation difficulties. Imaging of the cervical spine is commonly required. Clinical therapies include hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) and enzyme replacement therapy (ERT), both of which lead to the partial restoration of the clinical phenotype but are not reported to improve skeletal manifestations. ERT with elosulfase alfa is approved for MPS IVA and may be associated with increased endurance and pulmonary function, and reduced urinary excretion of KS. HSCT has been used on over 30 MPS IVA patients, however, further studies are required to evaluate therapeutic efficacy. In MPS IVB, management and treatment remains supportive and surgical.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Lysosomal Storage Disease	411	ARSB		黏多糖贮积症Ⅵ型	Mucopolysaccharidosis type VI	AR	Mucopolysaccharidosis type VI is an autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disorder resulting from a deficiency of arylsulfatase B. Clinical features and severity are variable, but usually include short stature, hepatosplenomegaly, dysostosis multiplex, stiff joints, corneal clouding, cardiac abnormalities, and facial dysmorphism. Intelligence is usually normal.	Before enzyme replacement therapy (ERT) with galsulfase (Naglazyme®), clinical management was limited to supportive care and hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. Galsulfase is now widely available and is a specific therapy providing improved endurance with an acceptable safety profile.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Lysosomal Storage Disease	2990	GUSB		黏多糖贮积症Ⅶ型	Mucopolysaccharidosis type VII	AR	Mucopolysaccharidosis type VII (MPS VII) is a very rare lysosomal storage disease belonging to the group of mucopolysaccharidoses. Less than 40 patients with neonatal to moderate presentation have been reported since the initial description of the disease by Sly in 1973. However, the frequency of the disease may be underestimated as the most frequent presentation is the antenatal form, which remains underdiagnosed. Clinical signs are extremely variable: there are prenatal forms with non-immune hydrops fetalis, and severe neonatal forms with dysmorphism, hernias, hepatosplenomegaly, club feet, dysostosis, severe hypotonia and neurological disorders that ultimately lead to profound intellectual deficit and small stature in patients that survive. Finally, there are also very mild cases that are discovered during adolescence or adulthood following presentation with thoracic kyphosis. The disease is caused by beta-D-glucuronidase deficiency, which leads to accumulation of several glycosaminoglycans (dermatan sulfate (DS), heparan sulfate (HS), and chondroitin sulfate (CS)) in lysosomes.	ERT with recombinant human beta-glucuronidase has been approved in Europe and the USA for MPS type 7, and has shown improvement in walking, lung function and hepatosplenomegaly in clinical trials. Still, multidisciplinary management allows adapted symptomatic treatment, which is essential for improving the quality of life of the patients. In late-onset forms, treatment is mainly orthopedic. Bone marrow transplantation has been successful in three of five patients.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Lysosomal Storage Disease	3373	HYAL1		黏多糖贮积症Ⅸ型	Mucopolysaccharidosis type IX	AR	A lysosomal storage disease characterized by high hyaluronan concentration in the serum. The clinical features are periarticular soft tissue masses, mild short stature and acetabular erosions, and absence of neurological or visceral involvement.	Before enzyme replacement therapy (ERT) with galsulfase (Naglazyme®), clinical management was limited to supportive care and hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. Galsulfase is now widely available and is a specific therapy providing improved endurance with an acceptable safety profile.	疾病治疗参考-安馨可2019	不需解读	V2	包装	1个基因对应1个疾病		治疗参考：https://www.dovemed.com/diseases-conditions/mucopolysaccharidosis-type-ix/
Metabolism-Lysosomal Storage Disease	410	ARSA	Metachromatic Leukodystrophy	异染性脑白质营养不良	Metachromatic Leukodystrophy	AR	A leukodystrophy due to a lysosomal storage defect. Characterized by intralysosomal storage of cerebroside-3-sulfate in neural and non-neural tissues, with a diffuse loss of myelin in the central nervous system. Progressive demyelination causes a variety of neurological symptoms, including gait disturbances, ataxias, optical atrophy, dementia, seizures, and spastic tetraparesis. Three forms of the disease can be distinguished according to the age at onset: late-infantile, juvenile and adult.	In pre- or minimally symptomatic children, stem cell transplantation can be considered. Otherwise, the main treatment is supportive and focused on symptomatic relief.	疾病治疗参考-NORD	金伟伟	V2	包装	1个基因对应1个疾病		疾病治疗参考-NORD (National Organization for Rare Disorders) 
Metabolism-Lysosomal Storage Disease	2720	GLB1	Gangliosidosis	GM1神经节苷脂贮积症1型	GM1-gangliosidosis,type I	AR	The signs and symptoms of the most severe form of GM1 gangliosidosis, called type I or the infantile form, usually become apparent by the age of 6 months. Infants with this form of the disorder typically appear normal until their development slows and muscles used for movement weaken. Affected infants eventually lose the skills they had previously acquired (developmentally regress) and may develop an exaggerated startle reaction to loud noises. As the disease progresses, children with GM1 gangliosidosis type I develop an enlarged liver and spleen (hepatosplenomegaly), skeletal abnormalities, seizures, profound intellectual disability, and clouding of the clear outer covering of the eye (the cornea). Loss of vision occurs as the light-sensing tissue at the back of the eye (the retina) gradually deteriorates. An eye abnormality called a cherry-red spot, which can be identified with an eye examination, is characteristic of this disorder. In some cases, affected individuals have distinctive facial features that are described as "coarse," enlarged gums (gingival hypertrophy), and an enlarged and weakened heart muscle (cardiomyopathy). Individuals with GM1 gangliosidosis type I usually do not survive past early childhood.	Genetic knowledge may be beneficial related to issues such as selection of optimal supportive care, informed medical decision-making, prognostic considerations, and avoidance of unnecessary testing	疾病治疗参考-安馨可2018	不需解读	V1			包装疾病以外要报告的疾病	治疗参考：https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT04713475?cond=GLB1&draw=2&rank=1
Metabolism-Lysosomal Storage Disease	2720	GLB1		GM1神经节苷脂贮积症3型	GM1-gangliosidosis, type III	AR	A gangliosidosis with a variable phenotype. Patients show mild skeletal abnormalities, dysarthria, gait disturbance, dystonia and visual impairment. Visceromegaly is absent. Intellectual deficit can initially be mild or absent but progresses over time. Inheritance is autosomal recessive.	Genetic knowledge may be beneficial related to issues such as selection of optimal supportive care, informed medical decision-making, prognostic considerations, and avoidance of unnecessary testing	疾病治疗参考-安馨可2018	不需解读	V1			包装疾病以外要报告的疾病	治疗参考：https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT04713475?cond=GLB1&draw=2&rank=2
Metabolism-Lysosomal Storage Disease	2720	GLB1		GM1神经节苷脂贮积症2型	GM1-gangliosidosis, type II	AR	Patients with the childhood form of this disorder develop signs and symptoms of intermediate severity including locomotor disturbances, strabismus, muscle weakness, seizures, lethargy and lung infections. Compared to type 1, visceromegaly and skeletal anomalies are milder or may be absent. Macular cherry-red spots are infrequent. The course of the disorder is characterized by slower progression. Facial coarsening develops over time.	Genetic knowledge may be beneficial related to issues such as selection of optimal supportive care, informed medical decision-making, prognostic considerations, and avoidance of unnecessary testing	疾病治疗参考-安馨可2018	不需解读	V1			包装疾病以外要报告的疾病	治疗参考：https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT04713475?cond=GLB1&draw=2&rank=3
Metabolism-Lysosomal Storage Disease	3073	HEXA		Tay-Sachs病	Tay-Sachs Disease	AR	Tay-Sachs disease is marked by accumulation of G2 gangliosides due to hexosaminidase A deficiency. Three variants have been described according to age of onset. The infantile form (type 1) begins between 3 and 6 months of age. The earliest sign is an incessant startle response to noise. Psychomotor retardation appears after the age of 8 months with hypotonia, amaurosis, and megalencephaly. A cherry-red macular spot may be found but is not specific. Muscular weakness progresses and leads to paralysis. The disorder degenerates into a state of decerebration and is fatal during childhood. Enzymatic activity of the hexosaminidase A is either extremely low or totally absent in leucocytes and cultured in fibroblasts obtained by skin biopsy. In the juvenile form (type 2), onset is between ages 2 and 6 with locomotor ataxia, behavioural disorders, and progressive loss of intellectual capacities, leading to a state of decerebration and death at around the age of 15. The decrease in hexosaminidase A activity is less pronounced than in the infantile form. The adult or chronic form (type 3) may begin around the age of 10, but often the disorder is not diagnosed until adulthood. Two different clinical forms exist. The first is similar to atypical Friedreich disease, with spinocerebellar ataxia but no cardiac or osseous signs, such as scoliosis or flat feet. The second is that of juvenile spinal amyotrophy resembling Kugelberg-Welander's syndrome. Mental capacities and behaviour may or may not be affected. Hexosaminidase A deficiency is found.	There is no efficient treatment for Tay-Sachs disease, but anti-epileptics can be prescribed. A treatment aimed at inhibiting gangliosides synthesis (Miglustat) is currently being investigated for the slowly progressive forms.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V2	包装	1个基因对应多个疾病，需确定包装疾病		治疗参考：<br/>https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT04221451?cond=NCT04221451&draw=2&rank=1<br/>https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/results?cond=NCT04798235&term=&cntry=&state=&city=&dist=
Metabolism-Lysosomal Storage Disease	3074	HEXB		Sandhoff病	Sandhoff Disease	AR	Sandhoff disease is a lysosomal storage disorder from the GM2 gangliosidosis family and is characterised by central nervous system degeneration. The clinical picture is identical to that of Tay-Sachs disease, with startle reactions, early blindness, progressive motor and mental deterioration, macrocephaly and cherry-red spots on the macula. Children develop normally during the first 3-6 months of life, after which the disease appears and evolves quickly. In cases with later onset, or in adult cases, signs may be those of spinocerebellous ataxia or dystonia.There is no specific treatment available for this disease, and the prognosis is poor, with death usually occurring by age of 4 years.Prevalence in Europe is about 1/130 000.	There is no specific treatment available for this disease.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V2	包装	1个基因对应1个疾病		疾病治疗参考-NORD (National Organization for Rare Disorders) 
Metabolism-Lysosomal Storage Disease	2760	GM2A		AB变异型GM2神经节苷脂贮积症	GM2-gangliosidosis, AB variant	AR	GM2-gangliosidosis, AB variant is a rare inherited disorder that progressively destroys nerve cells (neurons) in the brain and spinal cord. Infants with this disorder typically appear normal until the age of 3 to 6 months, when their development slows and muscles used for movement weaken. Affected infants lose motor skills such as turning over, sitting, and crawling.As the disease progresses, children with the AB variant experience seizures, vision and hearing loss, intellectual disability, and paralysis. An eye abnormality called a cherry-red spot, which can be identified with an eye examination, is characteristic of this disorder. Children with the AB variant usually live only into early childhood.There is currently no cure or treatment for this disorder.The AB variant is extremely rare; only a few cases have been reported worldwide.	Target dose of 320 mg/m^2/day (divided in 3 doses) will be based on the Body Surface Area (BSA). For children with a BSA > 1.3, 200 mg TID will be administered. For children with a BSA of 0.8-1.3, 100 mg TID will be administered.	疾病治疗参考-clinicaltrials.gov	金伟伟	V2	包装	1个基因对应1个疾病		治疗参考：https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT00418847?cond=GM2A&draw=2&rank=2
Metabolism-Glycometabolism Disorders	2584	GALK1	Galactosemia	半乳糖激酶缺乏症	Galactokinase Deficiency	AR	Galactokinase deficiency is a rare mild form of galactosemia characterized by early onset of cataract and an absence of the usual signs of classic galactosemia, i.e. feeding difficulties, poor weight gain and growth, lethargy, and jaundice. Prevalence of this form of galactosemia is not known but is estimated to be less than 1/ 100,000. Patients with galactokinase deficiency generally have elevated plasma galactose and increased urinary excretion of galactitol. They develop cataracts during the first weeks or months of life as a result of accumulation of galactitol in the lens. Patients are otherwise healthy.	Individuals may manifest with early-onset cataracts, and dietary measures (galactose/lactose restricted diet) can be effective; The presence of pseudotumor cerebri has been described, and awareness may allow prompt recognition and management	疾病治疗参考-安馨可2018	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Glycometabolism Disorders	2592	GALT		半乳糖血症	Galactosemia	AR	Galactosemia is a group of rare genetic metabolic disorders characterized by impaired galactose metabolism resulting in a range of variable manifestations encompassing a severe, life-threatening disease (classic galactosemia), a rare mild form (galactokinase deficiency) causing cataract, and a very rare form with variable severity (galactose epimerase deficiency) resembling classic galactosemia in the severe form. Infants usually develop feeding difficulties, poor weight gain and growth, lethargy, and jaundice in the common severe form of the disorder, i.e. classic galactosemia. The rare, less severe clinical subtype of galactosemia (galactokinase deficiency) causes primarily cataracts while other signs of galactosemia are absent. The very rare subtype (galactose epimerase deficiency) has a variable clinical picture including the usual signs of galactosemia (hypotonia, poor feeding, vomiting, weight loss, jaundice) and complications such as impaired growth, cognitive deficit and cataracts.	Treatment is based primarily on galactose restriction in the diet. Infants should be fed with soy formula or other lactose-free formula. Patients are advised to follow a lifelong diet. To prevent a diminished bone mass, calcium, vitamin D and vitamin K supplements are recommended if dietary intake does not meet the recommended daily allowance. Monitoring of cognitive and motor development, gonadal function and bone mass is mandatory. Eye examinations are recommended in case of neonatal cataracts or in case of poor dietary compliance. Despite dietary treatment long-term complications occur.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Glycometabolism Disorders	2582	GALE		差向异构酶缺乏性半乳糖血症	Epimerase Deficiency Galactosemia	AR	Disease characteristics. Epimerase deficiency galactosemia (GALE deficiency galactosemia) is a continuum comprising three forms: Generalized. Enzyme activity is profoundly decreased in all tissues tested. Peripheral. Enzyme activity is deficient in red blood cells and circulating white blood cells, but normal or near normal in all other tissues. Intermediate. Enzyme activity is deficient in red blood cells and circulating white blood cells and less than 50% of normal levels in other cells tested. Treatment of manifestations: The acute and potentially lethal symptoms of generalized epimerase deficiency galactosemia are prevented or corrected by a galactose/lactose-restricted diet. Infants should be fed a formula (e.g., soy formula) that contains only trace levels of galactose or lactose. Continued dietary restriction of dairy products in older children is recommended. In contrast, infants with peripheral epimerase deficiency galactosemia are believed to remain asymptomatic regardless of diet; infants with intermediate epimerase deficiency galactosemia may benefit in the long term from early dietary galactose/lactose restriction, but this remains unclear.	The generalized form, which typically manifests clinically in infancy upon exposure to lactose-containing diet, can result in lethal sequelae, and can be treated or prevented through dietary means (galactose/lactose restriction); Though data are unclear, individuals with intermediate forms of disease may also benefit from galactose restriction as well	疾病治疗参考-安馨可2019	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Glycometabolism Disorders	2538	G6PC	Glycogen Storage Disease	糖原累积病Ⅰa型	Glycogen Storage Disease Type Ia	AR	Glycogenosis due to glucose-6-phosphatase deficiency (G6P) type a, or glycogen storage disease (GSD) type 1a, is a type of glycogenosis due to G6P deficiency. The disease may manifest at birth by enlarged liver or, more commonly, between the ages of three to four months by symptoms of fast-induced hypoglycemia (tremors, seizures, cyanosis, and apnea). Patients present disturbed glucose homeostasis usually characterized by poor tolerance to fasting, significant hepatomegaly (sometimes eight to ten cm below the right costal margin), growth retardation (short stature and delayed puberty), generally improved by an appropriate diet, osteopenia and, in some cases, osteoporosis, round doll-like facial appearance with full cheeks, mild hypotonia, nephromegaly, and platelet dysfunction that may lead to frequent epistaxis. Diarrhea may be encountered. Late complications are hepatic (adenomas with rare but possible transformation into hepatocellular carcinoma) and renal (glomerular hyperfiltration leading to proteinuria and sometimes to renal failure), but also include anemia, sometimes severe, and a risk of hypoglycemic brain damage. Pulmonary hypertension has been reported in few cases.	Dietary measures can be beneficial allow optimal glucose levels and promote growth and development (additionally, specific carbohydrate sources should be limited); Allopurinol to prevent gout and lipid-lowering medications to prevent hyperlipidemia may be necessary when dietary therapy is ineffective; Citrate supplementation and ACE inhibitors may help prevent development of decrease renal complications, though renal transplant may ultimately be necessary; Surveillance for and treatment of hepatic neoplasms (including liver transplant in some) can be beneficial;  G-CSF may be beneficial due to recurrent infections	疾病治疗参考-安馨可2018	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Glycometabolism Disorders	2542	SLC37A4		糖原累积病Ⅰb/Ⅰc型	Glycogen Storage Disease type Ib/Ⅰc	AR	Glycogenosis due to glucose-6-phosphatase deficiency (G6P) type b, or glycogen storage disease (GSD) type 1b, is a type of glycogenosis due to G6P deficiency.Prevalence is unknown. Annual incidence at birth of glycogenosis due to G6P deficiency is around 1/100,000. Type b is the less frequent type, affecting about 20% of patients.Clinical presentation is similar to that of glycogenosis due to G6P deficiency type a. In addition, in type b, neutropenia, and neutrophil dysfunction are responsible for tendency towards infections, relapsing aphthous gingivostomatitis, and inflammatory bowel disease.Glycogen Storage Disease Ic, a metabolic disorder characterized by impairment of terminal steps of glycogenolysis and gluconeogenesis. Patients manifest a wide range of clinical symptoms and biochemical abnormalities, including hypoglycemia, severe hepatomegaly due to excessive accumulation of glycogen, kidney enlargement, growth retardation, lactic acidemia, hyperlipidemia, and hyperuricemia.	Dietary measures can be beneficial allow optimal glucose levels and promote growth and development (additionally, specific carbohydrate sources should be limited); Allopurinol to prevent gout and lipid-lowering medications to prevent hyperlipidemia may be necessary when dietary therapy is ineffective; Citrate supplementation and ACE inhibitors may help prevent development of decrease renal complications, though renal transplant may ultimately be necessary; Surveillance for and treatment of hepatic neoplasms (including liver transplant in some) can be beneficial;  G-CSF may be beneficial due to recurrent infections	疾病治疗参考-安馨可2018	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Glycometabolism Disorders	2548	GAA		糖原累积病Ⅱ型	Glycogen storage disease II	AR	A metabolic disorder with a broad clinical spectrum. The severe infantile form, or Pompe disease, presents at birth with massive accumulation of glycogen in muscle, heart and liver. Cardiomyopathy and muscular hypotonia are the cardinal features of this form whose life expectancy is less than two years. The juvenile and adult forms present as limb-girdle muscular dystrophy beginning in the lower limbs. Final outcome depends on respiratory muscle failure. Patients with the adult form can be free of clinical symptoms for most of their life but finally develop a slowly progressive myopathy.	Enzyme therapy is available; Disease-specific care of cardiomyopathy may be beneficial (eg, some standard drugs are contraindicated, and there is high  risk for arrhythmias and sudden cardiac death)	疾病治疗参考-安馨可2018	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Glycometabolism Disorders	178	AGL		糖原累积病Ⅲ型	Glycogen Storage Disease type III	AR	Glycogen debranching enzyme (GDE) deficiency, or glycogen storage disease type 3 (GSD 3), is a form of glycogen storage disease characterized by severe muscle weakness and hepatopathy.GSD 3 commonly occurs in early childhood. Children present with hepatomegaly, growth retardation and occasional seizures related to hypoglycemia. Hepatomegaly may disappear with adulthood. Muscle weakness is slowly progressive. Other frequently associated signs include muscular hypotonia and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Symptoms often improve at puberty, except in the few cases where cirrhosis or myopathy appears. Biological findings include hypoglycemia without acidosis, hypertriglyceridemia, and hypertransaminasemia during childhood.	Treatment is based on a specific diet, with enteral nasogastric drip feeding at night in case of hypoglycemia, frequent meals, and uncooked starch supplements. For patients with myopathy, a high protein diet is also recommended.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Glycometabolism Disorders	2632	GBE1		糖原累积病Ⅳ型	Glycogen Storage Disease type IV	AR	A metabolic disorder characterized by the accumulation of an amylopectin-like polysaccharide. The typical clinical manifestation is liver disease of childhood, progressing to lethal hepatic cirrhosis. Most children with this condition die before two years of age. However, the liver disease is not always progressive. There is no specific treatment. A liver transplant can be proposed in severe forms without associated heart disease.Prognosis is unfavorable for patients with perinatal onset and classic forms who do not undergo liver transplantation. Long-term prognosis for others depends on the extent, severity, and progression of the condition. There is also a neuromuscular form of glycogen storage disease type 4 that varies in onset (perinatal, congenital, juvenile, or adult) and severity.	There is no specific treatment. A liver transplant can be proposed in severe forms without associated heart disease.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Glycometabolism Disorders	5837	PYGM		糖原累积病Ⅴ型	Glycogen Storage Disease type V	AR	Glycogen storage disease type V (GSDV, McArdle disease) is a metabolic myopathy characterized by exercise intolerance manifested by rapid fatigue, myalgia, and cramps in exercising muscles. Symptoms usually are precipitated by isometric exercise or sustained aerobic exercise. Most individuals improve their exercise tolerance by exploiting the second wind phenomenon with relief of myalgia and fatigue after a few minutes of rest. Age of onset is frequently in the first decade of life but can vary. Fixed muscle weakness occurs in approximately 25% of affected individuals, is more likely to involve proximal muscles, and is more common in individuals of advanced age. Approximately 50% of affected individuals have recurrent episodes of myoglobinuria that could eventually result in acute renal failure, although reported cases are rare.	Treatment is based on controlled physical training in order to develop mitochondrial oxidation capacities in muscles, and programmed glucose intake according to exercising periods. Diets with high protein intake have yielded variable results.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Glycometabolism Disorders	5836	PYGL		糖原累积病Ⅵ型	Glycogen Storage Disease type VI	AR	Glycogen storage disease type VI (GSD VI), a disorder of glycogenolysis caused by deficiency of hepatic glycogen phosphorylase, is characterized in the untreated child by hepatomegaly, growth retardation, ketotic hypoglycemia after an overnight fast, and mild hypoglycemia after prolonged fasting (e.g., during an illness). It is usually a relatively mild disorder that presents in infancy and childhood; however, severe and recurrent hypoglycemia, severe hepatomegaly, and post-prandial lactic acidosis have been described. The risk of hepatic adenoma formation in late childhood and adulthood is theoretically increased. Clinical and biochemical abnormalities may resolve with age; most adults are asymptomatic. Hypoglycemia can occur during pregnancy.	A diet with high carbohydrate intake and regular meals prevents hypoglycemia in children, but most patients require no specific treatment.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Glycometabolism Disorders	5256	PHKA2		糖原累积病Ⅸa型	Glycogen storage disease type IXa1	XLR	Glycogen storage disease IXa is one of the mildest of the glycogenoses of man. Clinical symptoms include hepatomegaly, growth retardation, elevation of glutamate-pyruvate transaminase and glutamate-oxaloacetate transaminase, hypercholesterolemia, hypertriglyceridemia, and fasting hyperketosis These clinical and biochemical abnormalities gradually disappear with age, and most adult patients are asymptomatic.	Most patients require no specific treatment. Hypoglycemia can be controlled by adequate dietary treatment (frequent meals rich in carbohydrates, and supplements of uncooked starch).	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Glycometabolism Disorders	5257	PHKB		糖原累积病Ⅸb型	Glycogen storage disease type IXb	AR	A metabolic disorder characterized by hepatomegaly, only slightly elevated transaminases and plasma lipids, clinical improvement with increasing age, and remarkably no clinical muscle involvement. Biochemical observations suggest that this mild phenotype is caused by an incomplete holoenzyme that lacks the beta subunit, but that may possess residual activity.	Most patients do not require any specific treatment; a few patients may need to use cornstarch snacks.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Glycometabolism Disorders	5261	PHKG2		糖原累积病Ⅸc型	Glycogen storage disease type IXc	AR	A metabolic disorder manifesting in infancy with hepatomegaly, growth retardation, hypotonia, liver dysfunction, and elevated plasma aminotransferases and lipids. These symptoms improve with age in most cases; however, some patients may develop hepatic fibrosis or cirrhosis.	Most patients require no specific treatment. Hypoglycemia can be controlled by adequate dietary treatment (frequent meals rich in carbohydrates, and supplements of uncooked starch).	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Glycometabolism Disorders	5255	PHKA1		糖原累积病Ⅸd型	Glycogen storage disease type IXd	XLR	A metabolic disorder characterized by slowly progressive, predominantly distal muscle weakness and atrophy. Clinical features include exercise intolerance with early fatigability, pain, cramps and occasionally myoglobinuria.	Most patients do not require any specific treatment.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-Glycometabolism Disorders	5236	PGM1		糖原累积病ⅩⅣ型	Glycogen Storage Disease type XIV	AR	Congenital disorder of glycosylation type It (CDG1T) is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by a wide range of clinical manifestations and severity. The most common features include cleft lip and bifid uvula, apparent at birth, followed by hepatopathy, intermittent hypoglycemia, short stature, and exercise intolerance, often accompanied by increased serum creatine kinase. Less common features include rhabdomyolysis, dilated cardiomyopathy, and hypogonadotropic hypogonadism.	Treatment depends on the symptoms and severity in each person and may include oral D-galactose supplementation, standard treatment of hypoglycemia,  and/or heart medications or heart transplantation for cardiomyopathy.	疾病治疗参考-NORD	金伟伟	V1
Metabolism-Glycometabolism Disorders	229	ALDOB	Hereditary Fructose Intolerance	遗传性果糖不耐受	Hereditary Fructose Intolerance	AR	Hereditary fructose intolerance, also known as fructose-1 ,6-diphosphatasedeficiency, is a congenital metabolic disease caused by fructose-1,6-diphosphatase deficiency. Fructose intolerance becomes apparent in infancy at the time of weaning, when fructose or sucrose is added to the diet. This disease characterized by severe hypoglycemia, patients can occur vomiting, abdominal pain, convulsions, coma within 30 minutes after feeding. Without timely termination of such food, patients may show symptoms as aversion to sweets, diarrhea, jaundice, ascites, hepatomegaly ,metabolic acidosis and dysplasia. There is no radical treatment for this disease, diet control and symptomatic treatment are mainly used. Hereditary fructose intolerance has a good prognosis. A survey in Europe estimated the incidence of this disease is about 1:26100.	Whenever HFI is suspected, fructose should be eliminated from diet. This involves avoiding all types of food in which fructose, sucrose and/or sorbitol is found, either naturally or added during processing, including certain pharmacological preparations and infant formulae. The beneficial clinical and chemical effects of withdrawal are usually seen within a few days. Multivitamin preparation may be prescribed to substitute vitamins, especially vitamin C and folates. Intensive care and supportive measures may be required in case of acute intoxication	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V2	包装	1个基因对应1个疾病		参考《罕见疾病》及《罕见病诊疗指南（2019年版）》
Metabolism-Peroxisomal Disorders	5189	PEX1	Peroxisome biogenesis disorder	过氧化物酶体生物合成障碍1A型	Peroxisome biogenesis disorder 1A(Zellweger)	AR	A fatal peroxisome biogenesis disorder belonging to the Zellweger disease spectrum. PBD1A is an autosomal recessive systemic disorder characterized clinically by severe neurologic dysfunction with profound psychomotor retardation, severe hypotonia and neonatal seizures, craniofacial abnormalities, liver dysfunction, and biochemically by the absence of peroxisomes. Additional features include cardiovascular and skeletal defects, renal cysts, ocular abnormalities, and hearing impairment. Most severely affected individuals with the classic form of the disease (classic Zellweger syndrome) die within the first year of life.	There is no cure for ZS. Standard epileptic drugs are used for seizure control. Hepatic coagulopathy can be treated with vitamin K supplementation while cholestasis may require the provision of all fat soluble vitamins. A gastrostomy tube may be needed to allow for adequate calorie intake. Foods rich in phytanic acids (i.e. cow's milk) should be restricted. Supplementation of mature bile acids, cholic and chenodeoxycholic acid may help improve liver disease in infants with severe hepatopathy. As ZS patients cannot biosynthesize DHA, it can also be provided.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V2	包装	1个基因对应多个疾病，需确定包装疾病		疾病治疗参考-NORD (National Organization for Rare Disorders)
Metabolism-Peroxisomal Disorders	5189	PEX1		过氧化物酶体生物合成障碍1B型	Peroxisome biogenesis disorder 1B	AR	A peroxisome biogenesis disorder that includes neonatal adrenoleukodystrophy (NALD) and infantile Refsum disease (IRD), two milder manifestations of the Zellweger disease spectrum. The clinical course of patients with the NALD and IRD presentation is variable and may include developmental delay, hypotonia, liver dysfunction, sensorineural hearing loss, retinal dystrophy and vision impairment. Children with the NALD presentation may reach their teens, while patients with the IRD presentation may reach adulthood. The clinical conditions are often slowly progressive in particular with respect to loss of hearing and vision. The biochemical abnormalities include accumulation of phytanic acid, very long chain fatty acids (VLCFA), di- and trihydroxycholestanoic acid and pipecolic acid.	There is no cure for NALD and treatment is symptomatic. Cataracts should be removed in early infancy and glasses used to improve vision. Hearing aids are provided to those with hearing impairment, and cochlear implants considered when hearing loss is profound. Hepatic coagulopathy can be treated with vitamin K supplementation and liver function may improve with primary bile acid therapy. A gastrostomy tube may be necessary to allow for adequate calorie intake. Foods rich in phytanic acid (such as cow's milk) should be restricted. Docosahexanoic acid can be provided. Standard epileptic drugs are used for seizures. Lifelong follow up is needed to monitor changes in hearing, vision and liver function.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet，同大类	不需解读	V2	包装	1个基因对应多个疾病，需确定包装疾病		疾病治疗参考-NORD (National Organization for Rare Disorders)
Metabolism-Peroxisomal Disorders	5193	PEX12		过氧化物酶体生物合成障碍3A型	Peroxisome biogenesis disorder 3A(Zellweger)	AR	A fatal peroxisome biogenesis disorder belonging to the Zellweger disease spectrum and clinically characterized by severe neurologic dysfunction with profound psychomotor retardation, severe hypotonia and neonatal seizures, craniofacial abnormalities, liver dysfunction, and biochemically by the absence of peroxisomes. Additional features include cardiovascular and skeletal defects, renal cysts, ocular abnormalities, and hearing impairment. Most severely affected individuals with the classic form of the disease (classic Zellweger syndrome) die within the first year of life.	There is no cure for ZS. Standard epileptic drugs are used for seizure control. Hepatic coagulopathy can be treated with vitamin K supplementation while cholestasis may require the provision of all fat soluble vitamins. A gastrostomy tube may be needed to allow for adequate calorie intake. Foods rich in phytanic acids (i.e. cow's milk) should be restricted. Supplementation of mature bile acids, cholic and chenodeoxycholic acid may help improve liver disease in infants with severe hepatopathy. As ZS patients cannot biosynthesize DHA, it can also be provided.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V2	包装	1个基因对应多个疾病，需确定包装疾病		疾病治疗参考-NORD (National Organization for Rare Disorders)
Metabolism-Peroxisomal Disorders	5193	PEX12		过氧化物酶体生物合成障碍3B型	Peroxisome biogenesis disorder 3B	AR	A peroxisome biogenesis disorder that includes neonatal adrenoleukodystrophy (NALD) and infantile Refsum disease (IRD), two milder manifestations of the Zellweger disease spectrum. The clinical course of patients with the NALD and IRD presentation is variable and may include developmental delay, hypotonia, liver dysfunction, sensorineural hearing loss, retinal dystrophy and vision impairment. Children with the NALD presentation may reach their teens, while patients with the IRD presentation may reach adulthood. The clinical conditions are often slowly progressive in particular with respect to loss of hearing and vision. The biochemical abnormalities include accumulation of phytanic acid, very long chain fatty acids (VLCFA), di- and trihydroxycholestanoic acid and pipecolic acid.	There is no cure for NALD and treatment is symptomatic. Cataracts should be removed in early infancy and glasses used to improve vision. Hearing aids are provided to those with hearing impairment, and cochlear implants considered when hearing loss is profound. Hepatic coagulopathy can be treated with vitamin K supplementation and liver function may improve with primary bile acid therapy. A gastrostomy tube may be necessary to allow for adequate calorie intake. Foods rich in phytanic acid (such as cow's milk) should be restricted. Docosahexanoic acid can be provided. Standard epileptic drugs are used for seizures. Lifelong follow up is needed to monitor changes in hearing, vision and liver function.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet，同大类	不需解读	V2	包装	1个基因对应多个疾病，需确定包装疾病		疾病治疗参考-NORD (National Organization for Rare Disorders)
Metabolism-Peroxisomal Disorders	5190	PEX6		过氧化物酶体生物合成障碍4A型	Peroxisome biogenesis disorder 4A	AR	A fatal peroxisome biogenesis disorder belonging to the Zellweger disease spectrum and clinically characterized by severe neurologic dysfunction with profound psychomotor retardation, severe hypotonia and neonatal seizures, craniofacial abnormalities, liver dysfunction, and biochemically by the absence of peroxisomes. Additional features include cardiovascular and skeletal defects, renal cysts, ocular abnormalities, and hearing impairment. Most severely affected individuals with the classic form of the disease (classic Zellweger syndrome) die within the first year of life.	There is no cure for ZS. Standard epileptic drugs are used for seizure control. Hepatic coagulopathy can be treated with vitamin K supplementation while cholestasis may require the provision of all fat soluble vitamins. A gastrostomy tube may be needed to allow for adequate calorie intake. Foods rich in phytanic acids (i.e. cow's milk) should be restricted. Supplementation of mature bile acids, cholic and chenodeoxycholic acid may help improve liver disease in infants with severe hepatopathy. As ZS patients cannot biosynthesize DHA, it can also be provided.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V2	包装	1个基因对应多个疾病，需确定包装疾病		疾病治疗参考-NORD (National Organization for Rare Disorders)
Metabolism-Peroxisomal Disorders	5190	PEX6		过氧化物酶体生物合成障碍4B型	Peroxisome biogenesis disorder 4B	AD,AR	A peroxisome biogenesis disorder that includes neonatal adrenoleukodystrophy (NALD) and infantile Refsum disease (IRD), two milder manifestations of the Zellweger disease spectrum. The clinical course of patients with the NALD and IRD presentation is variable and may include developmental delay, hypotonia, liver dysfunction, sensorineural hearing loss, retinal dystrophy and vision impairment. Children with the NALD presentation may reach their teens, while patients with the IRD presentation may reach adulthood. The clinical conditions are often slowly progressive in particular with respect to loss of hearing and vision. The biochemical abnormalities include accumulation of phytanic acid, very long chain fatty acids (VLCFA), di- and trihydroxycholestanoic acid and pipecolic acid.	There is no cure for NALD and treatment is symptomatic. Cataracts should be removed in early infancy and glasses used to improve vision. Hearing aids are provided to those with hearing impairment, and cochlear implants considered when hearing loss is profound. Hepatic coagulopathy can be treated with vitamin K supplementation and liver function may improve with primary bile acid therapy. A gastrostomy tube may be necessary to allow for adequate calorie intake. Foods rich in phytanic acid (such as cow's milk) should be restricted. Docosahexanoic acid can be provided. Standard epileptic drugs are used for seizures. Lifelong follow up is needed to monitor changes in hearing, vision and liver function.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet，同大类	不需解读	V2	包装	1个基因对应多个疾病，需确定包装疾病		疾病治疗参考-NORD (National Organization for Rare Disorders)
Metabolism-Peroxisomal Disorders	5828	PEX2		过氧化物酶体生物合成障碍5A型	Peroxisome biogenesis disorder 5A	AR	A fatal peroxisome biogenesis disorder belonging to the Zellweger disease spectrum and clinically characterized by severe neurologic dysfunction with profound psychomotor retardation, severe hypotonia and neonatal seizures, craniofacial abnormalities, liver dysfunction, and biochemically by the absence of peroxisomes. Additional features include cardiovascular and skeletal defects, renal cysts, ocular abnormalities, and hearing impairment. Most severely affected individuals with the classic form of the disease (classic Zellweger syndrome) die within the first year of life.	There is no cure for ZS. Standard epileptic drugs are used for seizure control. Hepatic coagulopathy can be treated with vitamin K supplementation while cholestasis may require the provision of all fat soluble vitamins. A gastrostomy tube may be needed to allow for adequate calorie intake. Foods rich in phytanic acids (i.e. cow's milk) should be restricted. Supplementation of mature bile acids, cholic and chenodeoxycholic acid may help improve liver disease in infants with severe hepatopathy. As ZS patients cannot biosynthesize DHA, it can also be provided.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V2	包装	1个基因对应多个疾病，需确定包装疾病		疾病治疗参考-NORD (National Organization for Rare Disorders)
Metabolism-Peroxisomal Disorders	5828	PEX2		过氧化物酶体生物合成障碍5B型	Peroxisome biogenesis disorder 5B	AR	A peroxisome biogenesis disorder that includes neonatal adrenoleukodystrophy (NALD) and infantile Refsum disease (IRD), two milder manifestations of the Zellweger disease spectrum. The clinical course of patients with the NALD and IRD presentation is variable and may include developmental delay, hypotonia, liver dysfunction, sensorineural hearing loss, retinal dystrophy and vision impairment. Children with the NALD presentation may reach their teens, while patients with the IRD presentation may reach adulthood. The clinical conditions are often slowly progressive in particular with respect to loss of hearing and vision. The biochemical abnormalities include accumulation of phytanic acid, very long chain fatty acids (VLCFA), di- and trihydroxycholestanoic acid and pipecolic acid.	There is no cure for NALD and treatment is symptomatic. Cataracts should be removed in early infancy and glasses used to improve vision. Hearing aids are provided to those with hearing impairment, and cochlear implants considered when hearing loss is profound. Hepatic coagulopathy can be treated with vitamin K supplementation and liver function may improve with primary bile acid therapy. A gastrostomy tube may be necessary to allow for adequate calorie intake. Foods rich in phytanic acid (such as cow's milk) should be restricted. Docosahexanoic acid can be provided. Standard epileptic drugs are used for seizures. Lifelong follow up is needed to monitor changes in hearing, vision and liver function.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet，同大类	不需解读	V2	包装	1个基因对应多个疾病，需确定包装疾病		疾病治疗参考-NORD (National Organization for Rare Disorders)
Metabolism-Peroxisomal Disorders	5192	PEX10		过氧化物酶体生物合成障碍6A型	Peroxisome biogenesis disorder 6A(Zellweger)	AR	A fatal peroxisome biogenesis disorder belonging to the Zellweger disease spectrum and clinically characterized by severe neurologic dysfunction with profound psychomotor retardation, severe hypotonia and neonatal seizures, craniofacial abnormalities, liver dysfunction, and biochemically by the absence of peroxisomes. Additional features include cardiovascular and skeletal defects, renal cysts, ocular abnormalities, and hearing impairment. Most severely affected individuals with the classic form of the disease (classic Zellweger syndrome) die within the first year of life.	There is no cure for ZS. Standard epileptic drugs are used for seizure control. Hepatic coagulopathy can be treated with vitamin K supplementation while cholestasis may require the provision of all fat soluble vitamins. A gastrostomy tube may be needed to allow for adequate calorie intake. Foods rich in phytanic acids (i.e. cow's milk) should be restricted. Supplementation of mature bile acids, cholic and chenodeoxycholic acid may help improve liver disease in infants with severe hepatopathy. As ZS patients cannot biosynthesize DHA, it can also be provided.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V2	包装	1个基因对应多个疾病，需确定包装疾病		疾病治疗参考-NORD (National Organization for Rare Disorders)
Metabolism-Peroxisomal Disorders	5192	PEX10		过氧化物酶体生物合成障碍6B型	Peroxisome biogenesis disorder 6B	AR	A peroxisome biogenesis disorder that includes neonatal adrenoleukodystrophy (NALD) and infantile Refsum disease (IRD), two milder manifestations of the Zellweger disease spectrum. The clinical course of patients with the NALD and IRD presentation is variable and may include developmental delay, hypotonia, liver dysfunction, sensorineural hearing loss, retinal dystrophy and vision impairment. Children with the NALD presentation may reach their teens, while patients with the IRD presentation may reach adulthood. The clinical conditions are often slowly progressive in particular with respect to loss of hearing and vision. The biochemical abnormalities include accumulation of phytanic acid, very long chain fatty acids (VLCFA), di- and trihydroxycholestanoic acid and pipecolic acid.	There is no cure for NALD and treatment is symptomatic. Cataracts should be removed in early infancy and glasses used to improve vision. Hearing aids are provided to those with hearing impairment, and cochlear implants considered when hearing loss is profound. Hepatic coagulopathy can be treated with vitamin K supplementation and liver function may improve with primary bile acid therapy. A gastrostomy tube may be necessary to allow for adequate calorie intake. Foods rich in phytanic acid (such as cow's milk) should be restricted. Docosahexanoic acid can be provided. Standard epileptic drugs are used for seizures. Lifelong follow up is needed to monitor changes in hearing, vision and liver function.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet，同大类	不需解读	V2	包装	1个基因对应多个疾病，需确定包装疾病		疾病治疗参考-NORD (National Organization for Rare Disorders)
Metabolism-Peroxisomal Disorders	55670	PEX26		过氧化物酶体生物合成障碍7A型	Peroxisome biogenesis disorder 7A	AR	A fatal peroxisome biogenesis disorder belonging to the Zellweger disease spectrum and clinically characterized by severe neurologic dysfunction with profound psychomotor retardation, severe hypotonia and neonatal seizures, craniofacial abnormalities, liver dysfunction, and biochemically by the absence of peroxisomes. Additional features include cardiovascular and skeletal defects, renal cysts, ocular abnormalities, and hearing impairment. Most severely affected individuals with the classic form of the disease (classic Zellweger syndrome) die within the first year of life.	There is no cure for ZS. Standard epileptic drugs are used for seizure control. Hepatic coagulopathy can be treated with vitamin K supplementation while cholestasis may require the provision of all fat soluble vitamins. A gastrostomy tube may be needed to allow for adequate calorie intake. Foods rich in phytanic acids (i.e. cow's milk) should be restricted. Supplementation of mature bile acids, cholic and chenodeoxycholic acid may help improve liver disease in infants with severe hepatopathy. As ZS patients cannot biosynthesize DHA, it can also be provided.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V2	包装	1个基因对应多个疾病，需确定包装疾病		疾病治疗参考-NORD (National Organization for Rare Disorders)
Metabolism-Peroxisomal Disorders	55670	PEX26		过氧化物酶体生物合成障碍7B型	Peroxisome biogenesis disorder 7B	AR	A peroxisome biogenesis disorder that includes neonatal adrenoleukodystrophy (NALD) and infantile Refsum disease (IRD), two milder manifestations of the Zellweger disease spectrum. The clinical course of patients with the NALD and IRD presentation is variable and may include developmental delay, hypotonia, liver dysfunction, sensorineural hearing loss, retinal dystrophy and vision impairment. Children with the NALD presentation may reach their teens, while patients with the IRD presentation may reach adulthood. The clinical conditions are often slowly progressive in particular with respect to loss of hearing and vision. The biochemical abnormalities include accumulation of phytanic acid, very long chain fatty acids (VLCFA), di- and trihydroxycholestanoic acid and pipecolic acid.	There is no cure for NALD and treatment is symptomatic. Cataracts should be removed in early infancy and glasses used to improve vision. Hearing aids are provided to those with hearing impairment, and cochlear implants considered when hearing loss is profound. Hepatic coagulopathy can be treated with vitamin K supplementation and liver function may improve with primary bile acid therapy. A gastrostomy tube may be necessary to allow for adequate calorie intake. Foods rich in phytanic acid (such as cow's milk) should be restricted. Docosahexanoic acid can be provided. Standard epileptic drugs are used for seizures. Lifelong follow up is needed to monitor changes in hearing, vision and liver function.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet，同大类	不需解读	V2	包装	1个基因对应多个疾病，需确定包装疾病		疾病治疗参考-NORD (National Organization for Rare Disorders)
Metabolism-Peroxisomal Disorders	5189	PEX1		Heimler综合征1型	Heimler Syndrome 1	AR	A form of Heimler syndrome, a very mild peroxisome biogenesis disorder characterized by sensorineural hearing loss, amelogenesis imperfecta resulting in enamel hyoplasia of the secondary dentition, nail defects, and occasional or late-onset retinal pigmentation abnormalities.	A variety of therapies have been investigated to treat individuals with ZSD including specific dietary modifications or regimens such as a diet low in phytanic acid. Specific dietary modifications have had limited effect on individuals with ZSD.	疾病治疗参考-NORD	金伟伟	V2	包装	1个基因对应多个疾病，需确定包装疾病		疾病治疗参考-NORD (National Organization for Rare Disorders)
Metabolism-Peroxisomal Disorders	5190	PEX6		Heimler综合征2型	Heimler Syndrome 2	AR	A form of Heimler syndrome, a very mild peroxisome biogenesis disorder characterized by sensorineural hearing loss, amelogenesis imperfecta resulting in enamel hyoplasia of the secondary dentition, nail defects, and occasional or late-onset retinal pigmentation abnormalities.	A variety of therapies have been investigated to treat individuals with ZSD including specific dietary modifications or regimens such as a diet low in phytanic acid. Specific dietary modifications have had limited effect on individuals with ZSD.	疾病治疗参考-NORD	金伟伟	V2	包装	1个基因对应多个疾病，需确定包装疾病		疾病治疗参考-NORD (National Organization for Rare Disorders)
Metabolism-Peroxisomal Disorders	189	AGXT	Primary Hyperoxaluria Type	原发性高草酸尿症1型	Primary Hyperoxaluria Type I	AR	Primary hyperoxaluria type 1 (PH1) is a rare disorder of glyoxylate metabolism characterized by the accumulation of oxalate due to a deficiency of the peroxisomal hepatic enzyme L-alanine: glyoxylate aminotransferase (AGT). Clinical presentation is variable, ranging from occasional symptomatic nephrolithiasis to nephrocalcinosis and end-stage renal disease with systemic involvement. The prevalence of PH1 reported in Europe ranges from 1-100,000/ - 1/ 333,000. Higher values are reported in specific populations with a high rate of consanguinity. There exists an important heterogeneity in the clinical presentation and onset of PH1. The severe infantile form is characterized by a failure to thrive, nephrocalcinosis with or without nephrolithiasis and early end-stage renal failure. An onset in childhood and adolescence is often characterized by recurrent urolithiasis (with or without nephrocalcinosis) and progressive renal failure. The late onset form is mostly characterized by occasional renal stones with a disease onset in adulthood, but acute renal failure caused by bilateral obstruction of the kidneys by oxalate stones may occur. Other manifestations include urinary tract infections, dysuria and hematuria. The ongoing systemic oxalosis also may lead to other clinical manifestations such as cardiac conduction defects, vascular calcification with distal gangrene, disturbed vision, specific brown colored retinal deposits, skin nodules, joint involvement and bone disease leading to fractures in long-term dialysis-dependent patients.	If eGFR>30 ml/min/1.73m2: the patient needs first high fluid intake (>3 liter/day/m2 body surface). Then pyridoxine challenge in PH1 starting dose 5 mg/kg/day, increase to max 20; reduction urine oxalate >30% = positive response (about 30% of patients in Europe). In third potassium-citrate 0,5 mmol/kg/day. If eGFR<30 ml/min/1.73m2 it is consider to direct combined liver-kidney transplantation, sequential liver-kidney transplantation in case of severe systemic oxalosis or kidney transplantation in B6 responsive PH1 patients. Dietary oxalate restriction is probably of limited use.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V2	包装	1个基因对应1个疾病		疾病治疗参考-NORD (National Organization for Rare Disorders) 
Metabolism-Peroxisomal Disorders	9380	GRHPR		原发性高草酸尿症2型	Primary Hyperoxaluria Type II	AR	Primary hyperoxaluria type 2 (PH2), caused by deficiency of the enzyme glyoxylate reductase/hydroxypyruvate reductase (GR/HPR), is characterized by recurrent nephrolithiasis (deposition of calcium oxalate in the renal pelvis/urinary tract), nephrocalcinosis (deposition of calcium oxalate in the renal parenchyma), and end-stage renal disease (ESRD). After ESRD, oxalosis (widespread tissue deposition of calcium oxalate) usually develops. Symptom onset is typically in childhood.	If eGFR>30 ml/min/1.73m2: the patient needs first high fluid intake (>3 liter/day/m2 body surface). Then pyridoxine challenge in PH1 starting dose 5 mg/kg/day, increase to max 20; reduction urine oxalate >30% = positive response (about 30% of patients in Europe). In third potassium-citrate 0,5 mmol/kg/day. If eGFR<30 ml/min/1.73m2 it is consider to direct combined liver-kidney transplantation, sequential liver-kidney transplantation in case of severe systemic oxalosis or kidney transplantation in B6 responsive PH1 patients. Dietary oxalate restriction is probably of limited use.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V2	包装	1个基因对应1个疾病		疾病治疗参考-NORD (National Organization for Rare Disorders) 
Metabolism-Peroxisomal Disorders	112817	HOGA1		原发性高草酸尿症3型	Primary Hyperoxaluria Type III	AR	Primary hyperoxaluria type 3 (PH3) is a disorder of glyoxylate metabolism that can be asymptomatic or characterized by oxalate nephrolithiasis. The exact prevalence is unknown, but PH3 appears to be the second most prevalent form after PH1 (see this term). PH3 has a less severe course that primary hyperoxaluria type 1 or type 2 (see these terms), and may be silent or limited to stone formation, sometimes even improving over time. While hyperoxaluria persists in PH3, nephrocalcinosis and chronic kidney failure are uncommon, and systemic involvement has not been reported so far.	If eGFR>30 ml/min/1.73m2: the patient needs first high fluid intake (>3 liter/day/m2 body surface). Then pyridoxine challenge in PH1 starting dose 5 mg/kg/day, increase to max 20; reduction urine oxalate >30% = positive response (about 30% of patients in Europe). In third potassium-citrate 0,5 mmol/kg/day. If eGFR<30 ml/min/1.73m2 it is consider to direct combined liver-kidney transplantation, sequential liver-kidney transplantation in case of severe systemic oxalosis or kidney transplantation in B6 responsive PH1 patients. Dietary oxalate restriction is probably of limited use.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V2	包装	1个基因对应1个疾病		疾病治疗参考-NORD (National Organization for Rare Disorders) 
Metabolism-Peroxisomal Disorders	79783	SUGCT	Glutaric Aciduria III	戊二酸血症Ⅲ型	Glutaric Aciduria III	AR	A metabolic disorder due to peroxisomal glutaryl-CoA oxidase deficiency and characterized by the excretion of abnormal quantities of glutaric acid but low 3-hydroxyglutaric acid.	Treatment with riboflavin has been helpful in some patients	疾病治疗参考-NORD	金伟伟	V2	包装	1个基因对应1个疾病		疾病治疗参考-NORD (National Organization for Rare Disorders) 
Metabolism-Lipid Metabolic Disorders/other	64241	ABCG8	Sitosterolemia	谷固醇血症1型	Sitosterolemia 1	AR	Sitosterolemia is a genetic disorder caused by dysregulation of cholesterol absorption and accumulation of sterols, notably those of plant origin. The clinical characteristics include xanthomas, premature coronary atherosclerosis, hemolytic anemia and/or hepatopathy.The disorder is treated by strictly reducing the intake of foods rich in plant sterols (e.g., vegetable oils, olives and avocados). However, dietary therapy is never sufficient to control this disease.If dietary treatment alone is insufficient, bile acid-binding resins (e.g., cholestyramine, colestipol) could be considered. In October 2002, a new cholesterol absorption inhibitor, ezetimibe, received US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval for use in sitosterolemia. This drug is now the standard of care, as it blocks sterol entry and can be used in combination with bile-acid resins. Only 45 cases have been reported in the literature worldwide, hence this condition appears to be relatively rare. More than likely, sitosterolemia is significantly underdiagnosed and many patients are probably misdiagnosed with hyperlipidemia.	Treatment aims to reduce plasma concentration of plant sterols to as close as possible to normal concentrations (i.e., <1 mg/dL), to control plasma concentration of cholesterol, and to prevent xanthoma formation and/or reduce the size and number of xanthomas. Current treatment therapies focus on the following:A diet low in shellfish sterols and plant sterols (i.e., avoidance of vegetable oils, margarine, nuts, seeds, avocados, chocolate, and shellfish) in conjunction with ezetimibe or other medications The sterol absorption inhibitor: ezetimibe (10 mg/d) which alone may be sufficient<br/>Bile acid sequestrants such as cholestryramine (8-15 g/d) which may be considered in those with incomplete response to ezetimibe.Treatments should begin at the time of diagnosis. When tolerated, the combined treatments can decrease the plasma concentrations of cholesterol and sitosterol by 10% to 50%. Often existing xanthomas regress.Arthritis, arthralgias, anemia, thromobocytopenia, and/or splenomegaly require treatment, the first step being management of the sitosterolemia, followed by routine management of the finding (by the appropriate consultants) as needed.Sitosterolemia does not respond well to standard statin treatment.Foods with high plant sterol content including shellfish, vegetable oils, margarine, nuts, avocados, and chocolate should be avoided or taken in moderation due to increased intestinal absorption of plant sterols in people with sitosterolemia	疾病治疗参考-NORD	金伟伟	V1
Metabolism-Lipid Metabolic Disorders/other	64240	ABCG5		谷固醇血症2型	Sitosterolemia 2	AR	Sitosterolemia, also known as phytosterolemia, is an autosomal recessive metabolic condition characterized by unrestricted intestinal absorption of both cholesterol and plant-derived cholesterol-like molecules, such as sitosterol. Patients with this disorder have very high levels of plant sterols in the plasma and develop tendon and tuberous xanthomas, accelerated atherosclerosis, and premature coronary artery disease.	Treatment aims to reduce plasma concentration of plant sterols to as close as possible to normal concentrations (i.e., <1 mg/dL), to control plasma concentration of cholesterol, and to prevent xanthoma formation and/or reduce the size and number of xanthomas. Current treatment therapies focus on the following:A diet low in shellfish sterols and plant sterols (i.e., avoidance of vegetable oils, margarine, nuts, seeds, avocados, chocolate, and shellfish) in conjunction with ezetimibe or other medications The sterol absorption inhibitor: ezetimibe (10 mg/d) which alone may be sufficient<br/>Bile acid sequestrants such as cholestryramine (8-15 g/d) which may be considered in those with incomplete response to ezetimibe.Treatments should begin at the time of diagnosis. When tolerated, the combined treatments can decrease the plasma concentrations of cholesterol and sitosterol by 10% to 50%. Often existing xanthomas regress.Arthritis, arthralgias, anemia, thromobocytopenia, and/or splenomegaly require treatment, the first step being management of the sitosterolemia, followed by routine management of the finding (by the appropriate consultants) as needed.Sitosterolemia does not respond well to standard statin treatment.Foods with high plant sterol content including shellfish, vegetable oils, margarine, nuts, avocados, and chocolate should be avoided or taken in moderation due to increased intestinal absorption of plant sterols in people with sitosterolemia	疾病治疗参考-NORD	金伟伟	V1
Metabolism-Lipid Metabolic Disorders/other	3949	LDLR	Hypercholesterolemia, familial	家族性高胆固醇血症1型	Hypercholesterolemia, familial,1	AD;AR	Hypercholesterolemia is a condition characterized by very high levels of cholesterol in the blood. People with hypercholesterolemia have a high risk of developing a form of heart disease called coronary artery disease. This condition occurs when excess cholesterol in the bloodstream is deposited in the walls of blood vessels, particularly in the arteries that supply blood to the heart (coronary arteries). The abnormal buildup of cholesterol forms clumps (plaque) that narrow and harden artery walls. As the clumps get bigger, they can clog the arteries and restrict the flow of blood to the heart. The buildup of plaque in coronary arteries causes a form of chest pain called angina and greatly increases a person's risk of having a heart attack. Inherited forms of hypercholesterolemia can also cause health problems related to the buildup of excess cholesterol in other tissues. If cholesterol accumulates in tendons, it causes characteristic growths called tendon xanthomas. These growths most often affect the Achilles tendons and tendons in the hands and fingers. Yellowish cholesterol deposits under the skin of the eyelids are known as xanthelasmata. Cholesterol can also accumulate at the edges of the clear, front surface of the eye (the cornea), leading to a gray-colored ring called an arcus cornealis. More than 34 million American adults have elevated blood cholesterol levels (higher than 240 mg/dL). Inherited forms of hypercholesterolemia, which cause even higher levels of cholesterol, occur less frequently. The most common inherited form of high cholesterol is called familial hypercholesterolemia. Recommendations for both primary prevention and secondary prevention have been published. For those at high risk a combination of lifestyle modification and statins has been shown to decrease mortality. This condition affects about 1 in 500 people in most countries. Familial hypercholesterolemia occurs more frequently in certain populations, including Afrikaners in South Africa, French Canadians, Lebanese, and Finns.	Treatment of FH is focused on reducing the LDL-C levels in order to decrease the risk for atherosclerotic heart disease.	疾病治疗参考-NORD	金伟伟	V1					20221110:遗传模式AR改为AD;AR
Metabolism-Lipid Metabolic Disorders/other	1593	CYP27A1	Cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis	脑腱黄瘤病	Cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis	AR	Cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis (CTX) is a lipid storage disease characterized by infantile-onset diarrhea, childhood-onset cataract, adolescent- to young adult-onset tendon xanthomas, and adult-onset progressive neurologic dysfunction (dementia, psychiatric disturbances, pyramidal and/or cerebellar signs, dystonia, atypical parkinsonism, peripheral neuropathy, and seizures). Chronic diarrhea from infancy may be the earliest clinical manifestation. In approximately 75% of affected individuals. Treatment of manifestations: Long-term treatment with chenodeoxycholic acid (CDCA) normalizes bile acid synthesis, normalizes plasma and CSF concentration of cholestanol, and improves neurophysiologic findings. Inhibitors of HMG-CoA reductase alone or in combination with CDCA are also effective in decreasing cholestanol concentration and improving clinical signs; however, they may induce muscle damage. The prevalence of CTX caused by the p.Arg395Cys mutation alone has recently been estimated at approximately one per 50,000 among persons of northern European heritage.	First-line treatment is based on chenodeoxycholic acid (CDCA) replacement therapy, which normalizes BAS and cholestanol concentrations, and improves neurological symptoms. Inhibitors of HMG-CoA reductase may also be used alone or in combination with CDCA, although they may induce muscle damage. Cataract extraction is typically required by age 50 years. Cholic acid treatment has also been used. It is not as effective as CDCA in suppressing BAS and the production of cholestanol, but lacks the hepatotoxicity of CDCA.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-other	538	ATP7A	Menkes Disease	Menkes病	Menkes Disease	XLR	Menkes syndrome is a disorder that affects copper levels in the body. It is characterized by sparse, kinky hair; failure to gain weight and grow at the expected rate (failure to thrive); and deterioration of the nervous system. Additional signs and symptoms include weak muscle tone (hypotonia), sagging facial features, seizures, developmental delay, and intellectual disability. Children with Menkes syndrome typically begin to develop symptoms during infancy and often do not live past age 3. Early treatment with copper may improve the prognosis in some affected individuals. In rare cases, symptoms begin later in childhood.Occipital horn syndrome (sometimes called X-linked cutis laxa) is a less severe form of Menkes syndrome that begins in early to middle childhood. It is characterized by wedge-shaped calcium deposits in a bone at the base of the skull (the occipital bone), coarse hair, and loose skin and joints.The incidence of Menkes syndrome and occipital horn syndrome is estimated to be 1 in 100,000 newborns.Mutations in the ATP7A gene cause Menkes syndrome. Menkes syndrome is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. Classic Menkes disease: gastrostomy tube placement to manage caloric intake; surgery for bladder diverticulae. Subcutaneous injections of copper histidine or copper chloride before age ten days normalizes developmental outcome in some children and improves the neurologic outcome in others.Antibiotic prophylaxis may prevent bladder infection.	Treatment is mainly symptomatic. Early parenteral copper-histidine supplementation may modify disease progression and some symptoms by providing extra copper to tissue and to copper-dependent enzymes. Oral administration of copper is ineffective as it is trapped in the intestines.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-other	5251	PHEX	Hypophosphatemia	X连锁低磷酸盐血症	X-Linked Hypophosphatemia	XLD	X-linked hypophosphatemia (XLH)is an X-linked dominant form of rickets (or osteomalacia) that differs from most cases of rickets in that ingestion of vitamin D is relatively ineffective. It can cause bone deformity including short stature and genu varum (bow leggedness). It is associated with a mutation in the PHEX gene sequence (Xp.22) and subsequent inactivity of the PHEX protein. The prevalence of the disease is 1:20000. The leg deformity can be treated with Ilizarov frames and CHAOS surgery.	Treatment aims at improving growth, bone or joint pain, and preventing skeletal deformities caused by rickets. Patients do not respond to vitamin D supplementation. For children, treatment consists of systematic oral administration of phosphate and calcitriol associated with frequent monitoring of height, serum calcium, alkaline phosphatase, parathyroid hormone, phosphate serum concentrations, and urinary calcium and creatinine. Calcitriol helps prevent secondary hyperparathyroidism that can be induced by phosphate administration. In adulthood, therapy is usually continued in symptomatic patients and generally aims at reducing bone pain. Corrective surgery of skeletal deformities may be required in some cases. Sometimes, nephrocalcinosis and hyperparathyroidism can be observed as complications of the therapy; frequent follow-up is therefore necessary. Several forms of adjuvant therapy are being tested to prevent/reduce complications of the current therapy.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-other	540	ATP7B	Wilson Disease	肝豆状核变性	Wilson Disease	AR	Hepatolenticular degeneration, also known as the Wilson Disease, can cause varying degrees of liver damage, brain degenerative disease, and copper deposition in Descemet's membrane. Hepatolenticular degeneration occurs in adolescents, usually between ages of 5~10. The main clinical phenotype include slurred speech, dysphagia, Kayser–Fleischer rings[1], tremor, pseudobular palsy[2], fulminant acute liver failure[3], elevated ALT in short term, splenomegaly et al. Currently, drug therapy is still a main treatment of Wilson Disease. In addition,patients also need a lifelong monitoring, and a diet with low copper-containing foods to prevent recurrence [4]. Wilson Disease has a poor prognosis. Its worldwide incidence is about 1:30000-1:100000 [5].	There is currently no cure for Wilson disease. The main aim of current treatment is to establish a negative copper balance with the life-long administration of chelating agents (D-penicillamine, trientine salts) or zinc salt. Treatment helps to improve the manifestations of the disease over time, and its effectiveness depends on strict adherence to it throughout life. Restriction of copper-rich foods may be beneficial. Liver transplantation is the recommended therapy in cases of acute liver failure with encephalopathy or decompensated cirrhosis despite drug therapy.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-other	5205	ATP8B1	Progressive Familial Intrahepatic Cholestasis	进行性家族性肝内胆汁淤积症1型	Progressive Familial Intrahepatic Cholestasis 1	AR	PFIC1, a type of progressive familial intrahepathic cholestasis (PFIC, see this term), is an infantile hereditary disorder in bile formation that is hepatocellular in origin and associated with extrahepatic features. Estimated prevalence at birth of PFIC types 1-3 varies between 1/50,000 and 1/100,000 births. PFIC1 is the less frequent type of PFIC. Its onset occurs mostly during infancy. Clinical signs of cholestasis (discolored stools, dark urine) usually appear in the first months of life with recurrent or permanent jaundice associated with hepatomegaly and severe pruritus. Patients usually develop fibrosis and end-stage liver disease before adulthood. Extrahepatic features have been reported including persistent short stature, watery diarrhea, pancreatitis and sensorineural deafness.	Ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) therapy should be initiated in all patients to prevent liver damage. In some PFIC1 or PFIC2 patients, biliary diversion can also relieve pruritus and slow disease progression. However, most PFIC patients are ultimately candidates for liver transplantation. Monitoring of hepatocellular carcinoma, especially in PFIC2 patients, should be offered from the first year of life. Hepatocyte transplantation, gene therapy or specific targeted pharmacotherapy may represent alternative treatments in the future.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-other	8647	ABCB11		进行性家族性肝内胆汁淤积症2型	Progressive Familial Intrahepatic Cholestasis 2	AR	A disorder characterized by early onset of cholestasis ，Clinical signs of cholestasis (discolored stools, dark urine) usually appear in the first months of life with recurrent or permanent jaundice associated with hepatomegaly and severe pruritus. Early appearance of liver failure and/or progression to hepatocellular carcinoma within the first years of life may complicate the course of PFIC2，and progresses to hepatic fibrosis, cirrhosis, and end-stage liver disease before adulthood.	Ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) therapy should be initiated in all patients to prevent liver damage. In some PFIC1 or PFIC2 patients, biliary diversion can also relieve pruritus and slow disease progression. However, most PFIC patients are ultimately candidates for liver transplantation. Monitoring of hepatocellular carcinoma, especially in PFIC2 patients, should be offered from the first year of life. Hepatocyte transplantation, gene therapy or specific targeted pharmacotherapy may represent alternative treatments in the future.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-other	5244	ABCB4		进行性家族性肝内胆汁淤积症3型	Progressive Familial Intrahepatic Cholestasis 3	AR	Progressive familial intrahepatic cholestasis type 3 (PFIC3), a type of progressive familial intrahepatic cholestasis (PFIC, see this term), is a late-onset hereditary disorder in bile formation that is hepatocellular in origin. Onset may occur from infancy to young adulthood. Estimated prevalence at birth of PFIC types 1-3 varies between 1/50,000 and 1/100,000. PFIC3 represents one third of PFIC cases. Clinical signs of cholestasis (discolored stools, dark urine) appear within the first year of life in about one third of patients, or later with recurrent episodes of jaundice and mild pruritus. PFIC3 evolves into secondary biliary cirrhosis. Gastrointestinal bleeding due to portal hypertension might be the presenting symptom in adolescents or young adults.	Ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) therapy should be initiated in all patients to prevent liver damage. In some PFIC1 or PFIC2 patients, biliary diversion can also relieve pruritus and slow disease progression. However, most PFIC patients are ultimately candidates for liver transplantation. Monitoring of hepatocellular carcinoma, especially in PFIC2 patients, should be offered from the first year of life. Hepatocyte transplantation, gene therapy or specific targeted pharmacotherapy may represent alternative treatments in the future.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-other	2539	G6PD	Glucose-6-Phosphate Dehydrogenase Deficiency	葡萄糖-6-磷酸脱氢酶缺乏症	Glucose-6-Phosphate Dehydrogenase Deficiency	XLD	Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency is an X-linked recessive genetic disease that can involve a chronic hemolytic anemia caused by drugs, food or infection. Most G6PD-deficient patients are asymptomatic throughout their life, but G6PD deficiency can be life-threatening. The most common clinical manifestations of G6PD deficiency are neonatal jaundice and acute hemolytic anemia. This disease often occur after taking oxidation drugs or fava beans. Drug-induced hemolytic anemia or favism occur as dizziness, anorexia, nausea, vomiting and fatigue, followed by jaundice and hemoglobinuria, and renal failure in severe cases; Infection-induced hemolytic anemia usually attacks few days after infection, with lesser degree and mild jaundice. The disease treatment needs remove incentives, repeated blood transfusion and glucocorticoid. Dialysis treatment is used when renal failure. The disease has a high frequency, 400 million people worldwide have G6PD deficiency. It often appears in malaria-prone areas. The highest prevalence of G6PD deficiency is found in Africa, southern Europe, the Middle East. Southest Asia, and the central and southern Pacific islands./The disease can be caused by mutation in the G6PD gene. Variants of G6PD deficiency have been divided into 5 classes according to the level of enzyme activity: class 1--severe enzyme deficiency associated with chronic nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia; class 2--severe enzyme deficiency (less than 10%) associated with acute hemolytic anemia; class 3--moderate to mild enzyme deficiency (10-60%); class 4--very mild or no enzyme deficiency (60%); class 5--increased enzyme activity. The prevalence of class I glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency is estimated  below 1/1,000,000.	Hemolytic reactions can result from a variety of triggers, such as infections, dietary items, and medications, and avoidance of precipitating agents (or redosing in order to decreased the chance of certain medication reactions, as well as prompt removal in the case of a reaction) can be beneficial; Individuals are also susceptible to neonatal jaundice; Complete G6PD deficiency can result in immunodeficiency, and prophylactic measures, as well as prompt and aggressive treatment of infections, can be beneficial	疾病治疗参考-安馨可2018	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-other	80270	HSD3B7	Congenital Bile Acid Synthesis Defect	先天性胆汁酸合成障碍1型	Congenital Bile Acid Synthesis Defect 1	AR	A primary defect in bile synthesis leading to progressive liver disease. Clinical features include neonatal jaundice, severe intrahepatic cholestasis, cirrhosis.	Treatment is based on oral administration of cholic acid which leads to gradual resolution of biochemical and histologic abnormalities and prevents progression of the disease, even in cases with hepatic fibrosis and cirrhosis. Cholic acid therapy stimulates bile flow and suppresses synthesis of atypical bile acids and production of toxic intermediates via the bile acid pathway linked to the pathogenesis of disease.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Metabolism-other	249	ALPL	Hypophosphatasia	低磷酸酯酶症	Hypophosphatasia	AR	Hypophosphatasia is an inherited disorder that affects the development of bones and teeth.The signs and symptoms of hypophosphatasia vary widely and can appear anywhere from before birth to adulthood.Clinical features range from stillbirth without mineralized bone at the severe end to pathologic fractures of the lower extremities in later adulthood at the mild end,respiratory insufficiency,hypercalcemia/hypercalciuria,seizures,craniosynostosis,teeth agenesis,osteoarthritis,osteomalacia,fractures.Treatment of manifestations: Perinatal lethal type: expectant management and family support. Infantile types: respiratory support, treatment of hypercalcemia/hypercalciuria; treatment of seizures with vitamin B6; routine treatment of craniosynostosis. All other types: routine dental care starting at age one year; nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID) for osteoarthritis, bone pain, and osteomalacia; internal fixation for pseudofractures and stress fractures. Severe forms of hypophosphatasia affect an estimated 1 in 100,000 newborns. Milder cases, such as those that appear in childhood or adulthood, probably occur more frequently. This condition appears to be most common in Caucasian (white) populations. It is particularly frequent in a Mennonite population in Manitoba, Canada, where about 1 in 2,500 infants is born with severe features of the condition.	In 2015, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved asfotase alfa (Strensiq) as the first medical treatment for perinatal, infantile and juvenile-onset HPP. In the US, patients of any age with pediatric-onset HPP are eligible for this bone-targeted TNSALP replacement therapy given by subcutaneous injection.Supportive treatments for HPP are directed toward specific symptoms and complications. Treatment may require a team of specialists. Pediatricians, orthopedic surgeons, pedodontists, pain management specialists and other healthcare professionals may be needed for comprehensive treatment.Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may help bone and joint pain. NSAIDs require caution and monitoring for side effects (e.g. they can hurt the stomach and kidneys), especially in excess and if used too long. If craniosynostosis causes intracranial pressure, shunting or skull surgery may be necessary.Vitamin B6 can help to control specific seizures in severely affected babies. Those with elevated levels of calcium in the blood (hypercalcemia) may need dietary calcium restriction, hydration, certain diuretics, and perhaps injections of calcitonin.Regular dental care beginning early on is recommended. Physical and occupational therapy may be helpful.Adults with recurring long bone fractures may need orthopedic “rodding” where a metal rod is inserted within the center cavity of a long bone to increase stability and strength. Special medical devices (foot orthotics) may help foot (metatarsal) fractures.Patients should avoid bisphosphonates, a class of drugs used to treat other bone disorders such as osteoporosis. Bisphosphonates may worsen HPP or cause problems in individuals with undiagnosed HPP. Examples of bisphosphonate drugs are alendronate, ibandronate, pamidronate, risedronate and zolendronate.Genetic counseling may be helpful for affected individuals and their families. For children with HPP, psychosocial support for the entire family may be beneficial.	疾病治疗参考-NORD	金伟伟	V1
Metabolism-other	1738	DLD	Dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase deficiency	二氢硫辛酰胺脱氢酶缺乏症	Dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase deficiency	AR	Pyruvate dehydrogenase E3 deficiency is a very rare subtype of pyruvate dehydrogenase deficiency (PDHD) characterized by either early-onset lactic acidosis and delayed development, later-onset neurological dysfunction or liver disease. The majority of patients have presented with neonatal lactic acidosis or with lactic acidosis, delayed development and hypotonia during infancy. A few patients have presented later in childhood with ataxia and dystonia with normal cognitive development. A separate group of patients, essentially all of Ashkenazi Jewish origin and many homozygous for a common G229C missense mutation, present with episodic vomiting, abdominal pain, encephalopathy and liver cell dysfunction. In some patients, there is evidence of branched chain alpha-ketoacid dehydrogenase deficiency, with elevated concentrations of the branched chain amino acids and their metabolites. However, clinical manifestations in most cases appear to be related to the pyruvate dehydrogenase deficiency.	Treatment is generally aimed at stimulating the PDH complex or providing an alternative energy source for the brain. Cofactor supplementation with thiamine, carnitine, and lipoic acid has been recommended. A very small number of patients with mutations in the PDHA1 gene are thiamine-responsive. A ketogenic diet may be indicated especially for those presenting with a dystonic disorder. Dichloroacetate has been used but significant side effects, such as peripheral neuropathy, may limit effectiveness. No treatment has an effect on preventing prenatal development of structural central nervous system anomalies.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V2	包装	1个基因对应1个疾病		疾病治疗参考-NORD (National Organization for Rare Disorders) 
Metabolism-other	6535	SLC6A8	Cerebral Creatine Deficiency Syndrome	脑肌酸缺乏综合征1型	Cerebral Creatine Deficiency Syndrome 1	XLR	The onset of symptoms occurs during infancy, usually before the age of 2 years. Males are mainly affected, but females can also have various combinations and severities of disease manifestations. CRTR-D is consistently characterized by mild to severe intellectual deficit, and expressive speech and language delay. Behavioral disorders (mainly autism and hyperactivity) are present in all affected individuals. Affected individuals often experience seizures and may present low weight gain, muscular hypotonia, and poor muscle mass. Subtle dysmorphic features such as midface hypoplasia, long face, and prominent chin have been reported in various affected male patients. Epilepsy and extrapyramidal symptoms may also occur occasionally. In adult patients, cardiac and gastrointestinal disorders have been reported. Carrier females are typically asymptomatic, but learning disabilities have been described in some.	Treatment with high dosages of creatine monohydrate, alone or combined with L-arginine and glycine, has resulted in clinical improvement of seizures and behavior in some patients, but in most cases, it does not appear to increase cerebral creatine. Treatment may also increase muscle mass and improve motor skills, as observed in a small cohort.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V2	包装	1个基因对应1个疾病		疾病治疗参考-NORD (National Organization for Rare Disorders) 
Metabolism-other	2593	GAMT		脑肌酸缺乏综合征2型	Cerebral creatine deficiency syndrome 2	AR	Guanidinoacetate methyltransferase deficiency, an autosomal recessive inborn error of creatine synthesis, is characterized by developmental delay/regression, mental retardation, severe disturbance of expressive and cognitive speech, intractable seizures and movement disturbances, severe depletion of creatine/phosphocreatine in the brain, and accumulation of guanidinoacetic acid (GAA) in brain and body fluids	Treatment consists of oral high dose creatine monohydrate, in combination with ornithine supplementation (100-800mg/kg/day given in 3-6 doses daily) and/or dietary restriction of arginine (15-25mg/kg/day). Management of GAMT deficiency involves regular measurement of plasma guanidinoacetate and ornithine levels. Treatment improves seizures and behavioral and movement disorders, but it cannot reverse intellectual disability and developmental delay incurred before diagnosis. Early detection is essential in avoiding irreversible brain damage.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V2	包装	1个基因对应1个疾病		疾病治疗参考-NORD (National Organization for Rare Disorders) 
Metabolism-other	182	JAG1	Alagille Syndrome	Alagille综合征1型	Alagille Syndrome 1	AD	Alagille syndrome (ALGS) is a complex multisystem disorder involving primarily the liver, heart, eyes, face, and skeleton. The clinical features are highly variable, even within families. The major clinical manifestations of ALGS are cholestasis, characterized by bile duct paucity on liver biopsy; congenital cardiac defects, primarily involving the pulmonary arteries; posterior embryotoxon in the eye; typical facial features; and butterfly vertebrae. Renal and central nervous abnormalities also occur. Mortality is approximately 10%, with vascular accidents, cardiac disease, and liver disease accounting for most of the deaths.	Treatment is non-specific and includes high-carbohydrates and high-medium chain triglyceride diets and vitamin supplementation. Pruritus may be reduced by cholestyramine or rifampin. Liver transplantation may be necessary for patients with refractory disease. Cardiac or vascular procedures may be required for significant symptomatic lesions.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V2	包装	1个基因对应多个疾病，需确定包装疾病	该基因关注热点是否已包装	疾病治疗参考-NORD (National Organization for Rare Disorders) 
Metabolism-other	4853	NOTCH2		Alagille综合征2型	Alagille Syndrome 2	AD	Alagille syndrome (ALGS) is a complex multisystem disorder involving primarily the liver, heart, eyes, face, and skeleton. The clinical features are highly variable, even within families. The major clinical manifestations of ALGS are cholestasis, characterized by bile duct paucity on liver biopsy; congenital cardiac defects, primarily involving the pulmonary arteries; posterior embryotoxon in the eye; typical facial features; and butterfly vertebrae. Renal and central nervous abnormalities also occur. Mortality is approximately 10%, with vascular accidents, cardiac disease, and liver disease accounting for most of the deaths.	Treatment is non-specific and includes high-carbohydrates and high-medium chain triglyceride diets and vitamin supplementation. Pruritus may be reduced by cholestyramine or rifampin. Liver transplantation may be necessary for patients with refractory disease. Cardiac or vascular procedures may be required for significant symptomatic lesions.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V2	包装	1个基因对应多个疾病，需确定包装疾病		疾病治疗参考-NORD (National Organization for Rare Disorders) 
Metabolism-other	54658	UGT1A1	Crigler-Najjar syndrome	Crigler-Najjar综合征1型	Crigler-Najjar syndrome type 1	AR	Crigler-Najjar syndrome type 1 (CNS1) is the most severe form of CNS (see this term), a hereditary disorder of hepatic bilirubin conjugation, characterized by severe neonatal unconjugated hyperbilirubinemia due to a complete absence of hepatic bilirubin glucuronosyltransferase (BGT).Infants present with persistent jaundice at or soon after birth. Bilirubin encephalopathy (kernicterus manifesting as hypotonia, deafness, oculomotor palsy and lethargy) due to hyperbilirubinemia is a permanent risk. Neurologic defects (injury to basal ganglia, cerebellar and likely hippocampal structures) can occur, generally associated with intellectual and motor impairment.	Treatment relies on phototherapy for 10-12 hours a day (to maintain levels of unconjugated hyperbilirubinemia below the neurotoxic threshold and the bilirubin/albumin molar ratio <0.7). Orthotopic liver transplantation may be considered and is more effective when performed before onset of neurologic damage. Bilirubin chelators (calcium salts, cholestyramine) may be used. Treatment with heme oxygenase inhibitors (tin-mesoporphyrin) can decrease plasma bilirubin concentrations but are not advised in the long term, because of their side effects (photosensitization). They may be useful for treating acute and severe hyperbilirubinemia but are not available for daily clinical practice. Gene therapy trials are ongoing. Prompt treatment of neurologic manifestations is required to avoid potentially devastating neurologic sequelae (intensive phototherapy, albumin infusions, and plasma exchanges). Unlike CNS2, patients with CNS1 do not respond to phenobarbital.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V2	包装	1个基因对应多个疾病，需确定包装疾病		疾病治疗参考-NORD (National Organization for Rare Disorders) 
Metabolism-other	54658	UGT1A1		Crigler-Najjar综合征2型	Crigler-Najjar syndrome type 2	AR	Patients have less severe hyperbilirubinemia and usually survive into adulthood without neurologic damage. Phenobarbital, which induces the partially deficient glucuronyl transferase, can diminish the jaundice. CN2 inheritance is autosomal dominant.	Treatment relies on daily phenobarbital administration that can induce the expression of UGT1A1 resulting in a decrease in the serum bilirubin level by approximately 60-70%. Patients and their families must be educated to be very careful during infectious episodes and/or fasting periods that are likely to increase bilirubin production and thus increase hyperbilirubinemia. Should this occur, patients must be examined by their physician and serum bilirubin concentration must be measured.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V2	包装	1个基因对应多个疾病，需确定包装疾病	该基因关注热点是否已包装	疾病治疗参考-NORD (National Organization for Rare Disorders) 
Deafness	5172	SLC26A4	Pendred Syndrome	Pendred综合征	Pendred Syndrome	AR	Pendred syndrome (PDS) is a clinically variable genetic disorder characterized by bilateral sensorineural hearing loss and euthyroid goiter.Pendred syndrome is one of the more frequent forms of syndromic genetic deafness. Although prevalence is unknown, PDS may account for up to 7.5% of congenital hearing loss.	Management includes annual audiograms with suitable amplification (hearing aids) as soon as hearing impairment is diagnosed. Patients with severe-to-profound hearing loss should be evaluated for cochlear implantation, and when appropriate, specific educational programs for the hearing impaired should be considered. Abnormal thyroid function should be treated with standard therapy.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Deafness	4647	MYO7A	Usher Syndrome	Usher综合征IB型	Usher Syndrome Type IB	AR	Usher syndrome type I is an autosomal recessive condition characterized by profound congenital hearing impairment with unintelligible speech, early retinitis pigmentosa (usually evident within the first decade), and constant vestibular dysfunction. Type I is distinguished from type II on the basis of severity of hearing loss and the extent of vestibular involvement. Type I patients are profoundly deaf, whereas type II patients are 'hard of hearing.' Vestibular function is defective in type I patients, whereas type II patients have normal vestibular function. Patients with type III (USH3) have progressive hearing loss.	Management requires a multidisciplinary team with experience in the management of combined deafness and blindness (ENT specialist, ophthalmologist, speech therapist, psychologist, hearing aid specialist, occupational therapist, and all professionals implicated in adapted learning programs for patients with both hearing and visual deficits). Conventional hearing aids may be indicated for patients wit h moderate or severe hearing loss. Cochlear implants, (in most cases bilateral), are now more frequently used for patients with profound congenital hearing loss. Both cochlear implants and hearing aids are more effective when implemented early. Lenses with specialized filters may be recommended for the management of the rod cone dystrophy. A specific treatment with anhydrase carbonic inhibitor can be indicated in case of macular edema. Cataract surgery can be required. Current research is directed towards gene therapy, antisense oligonucleotide therapy (USH2A), neuroprotection and artificial vision systems.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Deafness	10083	USH1C		Usher综合征ⅠC型	Usher Syndrome Type IC	AR	Usher syndrome type I is an autosomal recessive condition characterized by profound congenital hearing impairment with unintelligible speech, early retinitis pigmentosa (usually evident within the first decade), and constant vestibular dysfunction. Type I is distinguished from type II on the basis of severity of hearing loss and the extent of vestibular involvement. Type I patients are profoundly deaf, whereas type II patients are 'hard of hearing.' Vestibular function is defective in type I patients, whereas type II patients have normal vestibular function. Patients with type III (USH3) have progressive hearing loss.	Management requires a multidisciplinary team with experience in the management of combined deafness and blindness (ENT specialist, ophthalmologist, speech therapist, psychologist, hearing aid specialist, occupational therapist, and all professionals implicated in adapted learning programs for patients with both hearing and visual deficits). Conventional hearing aids may be indicated for patients wit h moderate or severe hearing loss. Cochlear implants, (in most cases bilateral), are now more frequently used for patients with profound congenital hearing loss. Both cochlear implants and hearing aids are more effective when implemented early. Lenses with specialized filters may be recommended for the management of the rod cone dystrophy. A specific treatment with anhydrase carbonic inhibitor can be indicated in case of macular edema. Cataract surgery can be required. Current research is directed towards gene therapy, antisense oligonucleotide therapy (USH2A), neuroprotection and artificial vision systems.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1	包装至报告疾病列表
Deafness	65217	PCDH15		Usher综合征IF型	Usher Syndrome Type IF	AR	Usher syndrome type I is an autosomal recessive condition characterized by profound congenital hearing impairment with unintelligible speech, early retinitis pigmentosa (usually evident within the first decade), and constant vestibular dysfunction. Type I is distinguished from type II on the basis of severity of hearing loss and the extent of vestibular involvement. Type I patients are profoundly deaf, whereas type II patients are 'hard of hearing.' Vestibular function is defective in type I patients, whereas type II patients have normal vestibular function. Patients with type III (USH3) have progressive hearing loss.	Management requires a multidisciplinary team with experience in the management of combined deafness and blindness (ENT specialist, ophthalmologist, speech therapist, psychologist, hearing aid specialist, occupational therapist, and all professionals implicated in adapted learning programs for patients with both hearing and visual deficits). Conventional hearing aids may be indicated for patients wit h moderate or severe hearing loss. Cochlear implants, (in most cases bilateral), are now more frequently used for patients with profound congenital hearing loss. Both cochlear implants and hearing aids are more effective when implemented early. Lenses with specialized filters may be recommended for the management of the rod cone dystrophy. A specific treatment with anhydrase carbonic inhibitor can be indicated in case of macular edema. Cataract surgery can be required. Current research is directed towards gene therapy, antisense oligonucleotide therapy (USH2A), neuroprotection and artificial vision systems.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Deafness	7399	USH2A		Usher综合征IIA型	Usher Syndrome Type IIA	AR	Usher syndrome is a clinically and genetically heterogeneous autosomal recessive disorder characterized by sensorineural hearing deficiencies at birth and later development of progressive retinitis pigmentosa (RP). It is the most frequent cause of combined deafness and blindness in adults and affects 3 to 6% of children born with hearing impairment. In brief, patients with Usher syndrome type II have mild hearing impairment with normal vestibular responses. Type II is the most common of the 3 types of Usher syndromes.	Management requires a multidisciplinary team with experience in the management of combined deafness and blindness (ENT specialist, ophthalmologist, speech therapist, psychologist, hearing aid specialist, occupational therapist, and all professionals implicated in adapted learning programs for patients with both hearing and visual deficits). Conventional hearing aids may be indicated for patients wit h moderate or severe hearing loss. Cochlear implants, (in most cases bilateral), are now more frequently used for patients with profound congenital hearing loss. Both cochlear implants and hearing aids are more effective when implemented early. Lenses with specialized filters may be recommended for the management of the rod cone dystrophy. A specific treatment with anhydrase carbonic inhibitor can be indicated in case of macular edema. Cataract surgery can be required. Current research is directed towards gene therapy, antisense oligonucleotide therapy (USH2A), neuroprotection and artificial vision systems.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Deafness	84059	ADGRV1		Usher综合征ⅡC型	Usher syndrome Type IIC	AR	Usher syndrome is a clinically and genetically heterogeneous autosomal recessive disorder characterized by sensorineural hearing deficiencies at birth and later development of progressive retinitis pigmentosa (RP). It is the most frequent cause of combined deafness and blindness in adults and affects 3 to 6% of children born with hearing impairment. In brief, patients with Usher syndrome type II have mild hearing impairment with normal vestibular responses. Type II is the most common of the 3 types of Usher syndromes.	Management requires a multidisciplinary team with experience in the management of combined deafness and blindness (ENT specialist, ophthalmologist, speech therapist, psychologist, hearing aid specialist, occupational therapist, and all professionals implicated in adapted learning programs for patients with both hearing and visual deficits). Conventional hearing aids may be indicated for patients wit h moderate or severe hearing loss. Cochlear implants, (in most cases bilateral), are now more frequently used for patients with profound congenital hearing loss. Both cochlear implants and hearing aids are more effective when implemented early. Lenses with specialized filters may be recommended for the management of the rod cone dystrophy. A specific treatment with anhydrase carbonic inhibitor can be indicated in case of macular edema. Cataract surgery can be required. Current research is directed towards gene therapy, antisense oligonucleotide therapy (USH2A), neuroprotection and artificial vision systems.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1	包装至报告疾病列表
Deafness	4549	MT-RNR1	Aminoglycoside-induced deafness	氨基糖苷类药物诱导性耳聋	Maternally inherited hearing impairment	Mi	Deafness, sensorineural, mitochondrial: A form of non-syndromic deafness with maternal inheritance. Affected individuals manifest progressive, postlingual, sensorineural hearing loss involving high frequencies	Management requires a multidisciplinary team with experience in the management of combined deafness and blindness (ENT specialist, ophthalmologist, speech therapist, psychologist, hearing aid specialist, occupational therapist, and all professionals implicated in adapted learning programs for patients with both hearing and visual deficits). Conventional hearing aids may be indicated for patients wit h moderate or severe hearing loss. Cochlear implants, (in most cases bilateral), are now more frequently used for patients with profound congenital hearing loss. Both cochlear implants and hearing aids are more effective when implemented early. Lenses with specialized filters may be recommended for the management of the rod cone dystrophy. A specific treatment with anhydrase carbonic inhibitor can be indicated in case of macular edema. Cataract surgery can be required. Current research is directed towards gene therapy, antisense oligonucleotide therapy (USH3A), neuroprotection and artificial vision systems.	疾病治疗参考-耳聋大类	金伟伟	V1			2022.6.14，王星修改疾病名称，“aminoglycoside-induced deafness”改为“Aminoglycoside-induced deafness”
Deafness	2706	GJB2	Autosomal Recessive Deafness	常染色体隐性耳聋1A型	Autosomal Recessive Deafness 1A	AR	A form of non-syndromic sensorineural hearing loss. Sensorineural deafness results from damage to the neural receptors of the inner ear, the nerve pathways to the brain, or the area of the brain that receives sound information.	Management should be multidisciplinary (involving a paediatrician, general practitioner, ORL specialist, speech therapist and hearing aid specialist). Hearing aids (either implanted or external) generally provide the only management option for improving hearing loss, although surgical treatment may sometimes be proposed for some forms of conductive hearing loss.	疾病治疗参考-安馨可2019	不需解读	V1
Deafness	51168	MYO15A		常染色体隐性耳聋3型	Autosomal Recessive Deafness 3	AR	A form of non-syndromic sensorineural hearing loss. Sensorineural deafness results from damage to the neural receptors of the inner ear, the nerve pathways to the brain, or the area of the brain that receives sound information.	Management should be multidisciplinary (involving a paediatrician, general practitioner, ORL specialist, speech therapist and hearing aid specialist). Hearing aids (either implanted or external) generally provide the only management option for improving hearing loss, although surgical treatment may sometimes be proposed for some forms of conductive hearing loss.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet，Non-syndromic genetic deafness	不需解读	V1
Deafness	5172	SLC26A4		常染色体隐性耳聋4型伴前庭导水管扩大	Autosomal Recessive Deafness 4 with enlarged vestibular aqueduct	AR	DFNB4 with enlarged vestibular aqueduct is characterized by pre- or perilingual onset of sensorineural or mixed hearing loss, which may be fluctuating or progressive. The hearing loss is associated with temporal bone abnormalities, most commonly enlargement of the vestibular aqueduct, but it can also include the more severe Mondini dysplasia. Enlarged vestibular aqueduct is the most common form of inner ear abnormality and can be associated with disequilibrium symptoms in a minority of patients.	Management should be multidisciplinary (involving a paediatrician, general practitioner, ORL specialist, speech therapist and hearing aid specialist). Hearing aids (either implanted or external) generally provide the only management option for improving hearing loss, although surgical treatment may sometimes be proposed for some forms of conductive hearing loss.	疾病治疗参考-安馨可2019	不需解读	V1	包装至报告疾病列表		包装疾病以外要报告的疾病
Deafness	117531	TMC1		常染色体隐性耳聋7型	Autosomal Recessive Deafness 7	AR	A form of non-syndromic sensorineural hearing loss. Sensorineural deafness results from damage to the neural receptors of the inner ear, the nerve pathways to the brain, or the area of the brain that receives sound information.	Management should be multidisciplinary (involving a paediatrician, general practitioner, ORL specialist, speech therapist and hearing aid specialist). Hearing aids (either implanted or external) generally provide the only management option for improving hearing loss, although surgical treatment may sometimes be proposed for some forms of conductive hearing loss.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet，Non-syndromic genetic deafness	不需解读	V1
Deafness	64699	TMPRSS3		常染色体隐性耳聋8&10型	Autosomal Recessive Deafness 8	AR	A form of non-syndromic sensorineural hearing loss. Sensorineural deafness results from damage to the neural receptors of the inner ear, the nerve pathways to the brain, or the area of the brain that receives sound information.	Management should be multidisciplinary (involving a paediatrician, general practitioner, ORL specialist, speech therapist and hearing aid specialist). Hearing aids (either implanted or external) generally provide the only management option for improving hearing loss, although surgical treatment may sometimes be proposed for some forms of conductive hearing loss.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet，Non-syndromic genetic deafness	不需解读	V1
Deafness	9381	OTOF		常染色体隐性耳聋9型	Autosomal Recessive Deafness 9	AR	A form of non-syndromic sensorineural hearing loss. Sensorineural deafness results from damage to the neural receptors of the inner ear, the nerve pathways to the brain, or the area of the brain that receives sound information.	Management should be multidisciplinary (involving a paediatrician, general practitioner, ORL specialist, speech therapist and hearing aid specialist). Hearing aids (either implanted or external) generally provide the only management option for improving hearing loss, although surgical treatment may sometimes be proposed for some forms of conductive hearing loss.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet，Non-syndromic genetic deafness	不需解读	V1
Deafness	64072	CDH23		常染色体隐性耳聋12型	Autosomal Recessive Deafness 12	AR	A form of non-syndromic sensorineural hearing loss. Sensorineural deafness results from damage to the neural receptors of the inner ear, the nerve pathways to the brain, or the area of the brain that receives sound information.	Management should be multidisciplinary (involving a paediatrician, general practitioner, ORL specialist, speech therapist and hearing aid specialist). Hearing aids (either implanted or external) generally provide the only management option for improving hearing loss, although surgical treatment may sometimes be proposed for some forms of conductive hearing loss.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet，Non-syndromic genetic deafness	不需解读	V1
Deafness	7007	TECTA		常染色体隐性耳聋21型	Autosomal Recessive Deafness 21	AR	A form of non-syndromic sensorineural hearing loss. Sensorineural deafness results from damage to the neural receptors of the inner ear, the nerve pathways to the brain, or the area of the brain that receives sound information.	Management should be multidisciplinary (involving a paediatrician, general practitioner, ORL specialist, speech therapist and hearing aid specialist). Hearing aids (either implanted or external) generally provide the only management option for improving hearing loss, although surgical treatment may sometimes be proposed for some forms of conductive hearing loss.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet，Non-syndromic genetic deafness	不需解读	V1	包装至报告疾病列表
Deafness	146183	OTOA		常染色体隐性耳聋22型	Autosomal Recessive Deafness 22	AR	A form of non-syndromic sensorineural hearing loss. Sensorineural deafness results from damage to the neural receptors of the inner ear, the nerve pathways to the brain, or the area of the brain that receives sound information.	Management should be multidisciplinary (involving a paediatrician, general practitioner, ORL specialist, speech therapist and hearing aid specialist). Hearing aids (either implanted or external) generally provide the only management option for improving hearing loss, although surgical treatment may sometimes be proposed for some forms of conductive hearing loss.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet，Non-syndromic genetic deafness	不需解读	V1	包装至报告疾病列表
Deafness	65217	PCDH15		常染色体隐性耳聋23型	Autosomal Recessive Deafness 23	AR	A form of non-syndromic sensorineural hearing loss. Sensorineural deafness results from damage to the neural receptors of the inner ear, the nerve pathways to the brain, or the area of the brain that receives sound information.	Management should be multidisciplinary (involving a paediatrician, general practitioner, ORL specialist, speech therapist and hearing aid specialist). Hearing aids (either implanted or external) generally provide the only management option for improving hearing loss, although surgical treatment may sometimes be proposed for some forms of conductive hearing loss.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet，Non-syndromic genetic deafness	不需解读	V1	包装至报告疾病列表		包装疾病以外要报告的疾病
Deafness	83715	ESPN		常染色体隐性耳聋36型	Autosomal Recessive Deafness 36	AR	A form of non-syndromic sensorineural hearing loss. Sensorineural deafness results from damage to the neural receptors of the inner ear, the nerve pathways to the brain, or the area of the brain that receives sound information. DFNB36 is characterized by prelingual, profound hearing loss, and vestibular areflexia in some patients.	Management should be multidisciplinary (involving a paediatrician, general practitioner, ORL specialist, speech therapist and hearing aid specialist). Hearing aids (either implanted or external) generally provide the only management option for improving hearing loss, although surgical treatment may sometimes be proposed for some forms of conductive hearing loss.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet，Non-syndromic genetic deafness	不需解读	V1	包装至报告疾病列表
Deafness	286676	ILDR1		常染色体隐性耳聋42型	Autosomal Recessive Deafness 42	AR	A prelingual, non-progressive form of non-syndromic sensorineural hearing loss. Sensorineural deafness results from damage to the neural receptors of the inner ear, the nerve pathways to the brain, or the area of the brain that receives sound information.	Management should be multidisciplinary (involving a paediatrician, general practitioner, ORL specialist, speech therapist and hearing aid specialist). Hearing aids (either implanted or external) generally provide the only management option for improving hearing loss, although surgical treatment may sometimes be proposed for some forms of conductive hearing loss.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet，Non-syndromic genetic deafness	不需解读	V1	包装至报告疾病列表
Deafness	153562	MARVELD2		常染色体隐性耳聋49型	Autosomal Recessive Deafness 49	AR	A form of non-syndromic sensorineural hearing loss. Sensorineural deafness results from damage to the neural receptors of the inner ear, the nerve pathways to the brain, or the area of the brain that receives sound information.	Management should be multidisciplinary (involving a paediatrician, general practitioner, ORL specialist, speech therapist and hearing aid specialist). Hearing aids (either implanted or external) generally provide the only management option for improving hearing loss, although surgical treatment may sometimes be proposed for some forms of conductive hearing loss.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet，Non-syndromic genetic deafness	不需解读	V1	包装至报告疾病列表
Deafness	220074	LRTOMT		常染色体隐性耳聋63型	Autosomal Recessive Deafness 63	AR	A form of non-syndromic sensorineural hearing loss. Sensorineural deafness results from damage to the neural receptors of the inner ear, the nerve pathways to the brain, or the area of the brain that receives sound information.	Management should be multidisciplinary (involving a paediatrician, general practitioner, ORL specialist, speech therapist and hearing aid specialist). Hearing aids (either implanted or external) generally provide the only management option for improving hearing loss, although surgical treatment may sometimes be proposed for some forms of conductive hearing loss.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet，Non-syndromic genetic deafness	不需解读	V1	包装至报告疾病列表
Deafness	2707	GJB3	Autosomal Dominant Deafness	常染色体显性耳聋2B型	Autosomal Dominant Deafness 2B	AD	A form of non-syndromic sensorineural deafness characterized by progressive high frequency hearing loss in adulthood, with milder expression in females.	Management should be multidisciplinary (involving a paediatrician, general practitioner, ORL specialist, speech therapist and hearing aid specialist). Hearing aids (either implanted or external) generally provide the only management option for improving hearing loss, although surgical treatment may sometimes be proposed for some forms of conductive hearing loss.	疾病治疗参考-安馨可2019	不需解读	V1	包装至报告疾病列表
Deafness	1687	GSDME		常染色体显性耳聋5型	Autosomal Dominant Deafness 5	AD	A form of non-syndromic sensorineural hearing loss. Sensorineural deafness results from damage to the neural receptors of the inner ear, the nerve pathways to the brain, or the area of the brain that receives sound information.	Management should be multidisciplinary (involving a paediatrician, general practitioner, ORL specialist, speech therapist and hearing aid specialist). Hearing aids (either implanted or external) generally provide the only management option for improving hearing loss, although surgical treatment may sometimes be proposed for some forms of conductive hearing loss.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet，Non-syndromic genetic deafness	不需解读	V1	包装至报告疾病列表
Deafness	4286	MITF	Waardenburg syndrome	瓦登伯格综合征	Waardenburg syndrome	AD	Waardenburg syndrome is an auditory-pigmentary syndrome characterized by pigmentary abnormalities of the hair, including a white forelock and premature graying; pigmentary changes of the iris, such as heterochromia irides and brilliant blue eyes; and congenital sensorineural hearing loss. Waardenburg syndrome has been classified into 4 main phenotypes.	Hearing aids to counter hearing loss and effective therapy to improve language, communication, and cognitive skill are recommended. Pigmentation defects do not require medical care but cosmetic products are available. Rarely, in case of extended depigmentation, care is taken to protect the skinand eyesfrom the sun.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet，Waardenburg syndrome type 2	不需解读	V1	包装至报告疾病列表
Deafness	5077	PAX3		瓦登伯格综合征	Waardenburg syndrome	AD	Waardenburg syndrome is an auditory-pigmentary syndrome characterized by pigmentary abnormalities of the hair, including a white forelock and premature graying; pigmentary changes of the iris, such as heterochromia irides and brilliant blue eyes; and congenital sensorineural hearing loss. Waardenburg syndrome has been classified into 4 main phenotypes.	Hearing aids to counter hearing loss and effective therapy to improve language, communication, and cognitive skill are recommended. Pigmentation defects do not require medical care but cosmetic products are available. Rarely, in case of extended depigmentation, care is taken to protect the skinand eyesfrom the sun.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet，Waardenburg syndrome type 2	不需解读	V1	包装至报告疾病列表
Deafness	6663	SOX10		瓦登伯格综合征	Waardenburg Syndrome	AD	Waardenburg syndrome is an auditory-pigmentary syndrome characterized by pigmentary abnormalities of the hair, including a white forelock and premature graying; pigmentary changes of the iris, such as heterochromia irides and brilliant blue eyes; and congenital sensorineural hearing loss. Waardenburg syndrome has been classified into 4 main phenotypes.	Hearing aids to counter hearing loss and effective therapy to improve language, communication, and cognitive skill are recommended. Pigmentation defects do not require medical care but cosmetic products are available. Rarely, in case of extended depigmentation, care is taken to protect the skinand eyesfrom the sun.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet，Waardenburg syndrome type 2	不需解读	V1	包装至报告疾病列表
Immunological Deficiency	7454	WAS	Wiskott-Aldrich Syndrome	Wiskott-Aldrich综合征1型	Wiskott-Aldrich Syndrome 1	XLR	An X-linked recessive immunodeficiency characterized by eczema, thrombocytopenia, recurrent infections, and bloody diarrhea. Death usually occurs before age 10.	The only curative treatment to date is hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT), performed as soon as possible with the best matched HLA donor. In young patients lacking a HLA matched donor, HSCT with a haploidentical donor can lead to a favorable outcome. Gene therapy, still experimental to date, may be a promising approach for patients lacking a suitable donor. Immunoglobulin replacement therapy and oral antibiotics prevent infections. Severe eczema requires treatment with topical or short-term systemic steroids. Treatments that could weaken the immune system (steroids, splenectomy, immunosuppressive agents) should be used with the highest caution by trained medical staff. Agonists of the thrombopoietin receptors (such as romiplostim and eltrombopag) can be used to increase the platelet count in severe refractory thrombocytopenia cases that are awaiting HSCT or gene therapy.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Immunological Deficiency	4068	SH2D1A	X-Linked Lymphoproliferative syndrome	X连锁淋巴增殖综合征1型	X-Linked Lymphoproliferative syndrome 1	XLR	X-linked lymphoproliferative disease (XLP) is a disorder of the immune system and blood-forming cells that is found almost exclusively in males. More than half of individuals with this disorder experience an exaggerated immune response to the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV).  In some people it causes infectious mononucleosis.People with XLP may respond to EBV infection by producing abnormally large numbers of T cells, B cells, and other lymphocytes called macrophages. This proliferation of immune cells often causes a life-threatening reaction called hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis.About one-third of people with XLP experience dysgammaglobulinemia.Currently, the only cure for X-linked lymphoproliferative disease (XLP) is allogeneic stem cell transplantation.The prognosis is improved if affected males are managed with regular intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) therapy.XLP is estimated to occur in about 1:1,000,000 males worldwide.	The only cure for X-linked lymphoproliferative disease (SAP or XIAP deficiency) is by a hematopoietic stem cell allotransplantation. Treatment of HLH requires the use of corticosteroids, chemotherapy by VP16 (according to the protocol HLH-2004) or by antithymocyte globulin. The anti-CD20 antibody (Rituximab) can be used to reduce the EBV viral load and indirectly reduce T lymphocyte activation.	疾病治疗参考-安馨可2019	不需解读	V1
Immunological Deficiency	331	XIAP		X连锁淋巴增殖综合征2型	X-Linked Lymphoproliferative syndrome 2	XLR	X-linked lymphoproliferative disease (XLP) is a disorder of the immune system and blood-forming cells that is found almost exclusively in males. More than half of individuals with this disorder experience an exaggerated immune response to the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV).  In some people it causes infectious mononucleosis.People with XLP may respond to EBV infection by producing abnormally large numbers of T cells, B cells, and other lymphocytes called macrophages. This proliferation of immune cells often causes a life-threatening reaction called hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis.About one-third of people with XLP experience dysgammaglobulinemia.Currently, the only cure for X-linked lymphoproliferative disease (XLP) is allogeneic stem cell transplantation.The prognosis is improved if affected males are managed with regular intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) therapy.XLP is estimated to occur in about 1:1,000,000 males worldwide.	The only cure for X-linked lymphoproliferative disease (SAP or XIAP deficiency) is by a hematopoietic stem cell allotransplantation. Treatment of HLH requires the use of corticosteroids, chemotherapy by VP16 (according to the protocol HLH-2004) or by antithymocyte globulin. The anti-CD20 antibody (Rituximab) can be used to reduce the EBV viral load and indirectly reduce T lymphocyte activation.	疾病治疗参考-安馨可2019	不需解读	V1
Immunological Deficiency	695	BTK	X-Linked Agammaglobulinemia	X连锁无丙种球蛋白血症1型	X-Linked Agammaglobulinemia 1	XLR	X-linked agammaglobulinemia (XLA) is a clinically variable form of isolated agammaglobulinemia, an inherited immunodeficiency disorder, and is characterized in affected males by recurrent bacterial infections during infancy.X-linked agammaglobulinemia is a primary immunodeficiency diseases result from B cell developmental disorders and almost only have boy patient,and generally onset before two-year-old.the typical feature is recurrent bacterial infection,and the most common id recurrent ear infection.The other common symptoms include conjunctivitis,pulmonary infection,diarrhea and skin infection.About sixty percent of patients can be diagnosed as immunodeficiency when the patients have severe and threaten infection,for example pneumonia,empyema,meningitis,septicemia,and septic arthritis[1].The most common pathogenic bacterium are pneumococcus and pneumococcus,and suffer from sinus infection and otitis[2, 3].The major treatment is subcutaneous injection of immunoglobulin everyweek or intravenous immunogloblin  every 2-4 weeks,and also use long acting antibiotic to prevent infection.In recent 25 years,the prognosis has improved.The best treatment ard early diagnosis,immunoglobulin and increasing the dosage of antibiotics[4].The prevalence is 3:1,000,000—6:1,000,000。	There is no curative treatment for XLA but good disease control can be achieved through consistent gammaglobulin therapy. This can be given intravenously (400-600 mg/kg every 3 to 4 weeks) or subcutaneously (100 mg/kg every week). Therapy should be started as early as possible. Some immunologists advocate chronic prophylactic antibiotics and treatment of acute infections should be prolonged and at maximal doses of antibiotics.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Immunological Deficiency	1536	CYBB	Chronic Granulomatous Disease	X连锁慢性肉芽肿病	X-linked Chronic Granulomatous Disease	XLR	Chronic granulomatous disease (CGD) is a rare primary immunodeficiency, mainly affecting phagocytes, which is characterized by an increased susceptibility to severe and recurrent bacterial and fungal infections, along with the development of granulomas.	Antibacterial and antifungal prophylaxis is essential in preventing the infections seen in CGD. Lifelong daily doses of trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (antibacterial) and itraconazole (anti-fungal) are recommended. Interferon-gamma, 3 times weekly, is also recommended. Hematopoietic stem cell transplantation may be curative and is increasingly used. Gene therapy has been successful in a few cases and is expanding. In those with severe infections, granulocyte transfusions are sometimes used.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Immunological Deficiency	3561	IL2RG	Severe Combined Immunodeficiency	X连锁重症联合免疫缺陷	X-Linked Severe Combined Immunodeficiency	XLR	Severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) due to gamma chain deficiency, also called SCID-X1, is a form of SCID characterized by severe and recurrent infections, associated with diarrhea and failure to thrive. SCID-X1 manifests during the first months of life with severe and often life threatening viral, bacterial or fungal infections (e.g.?Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonitis, disseminated BCG infection if previously vaccinated), and failure to thrive. Chronic diarrhea is a frequent finding. Some patients may have skin rashes and abnormalities of liver function. Materno-fetal transfusion-associated graft versus host disease is also associated with the disease. Immunological findings are lymphopenia with the absence of T and NK cells, hypogammaglobulinemia, and normal or increased B cell count.	Antiinfectious prophylaxis and early and aggressive treatment of infections is indicated prior to attempts at immune reconstitution; Chronic immunoglobulin therapy may be required even after treatment aimed at immune reconstitution, which is necessary for survival; BMT/HSCT has been described, as has the use of gene therapy in individuals who are not candidates for or who have failed BMT	疾病治疗参考-安馨可2019	不需解读	V1
Immunological Deficiency	5896	RAG1		常染色体隐性重症联合免疫缺陷（B/T细胞阴性、NK细胞阳性）	Severe Combined Immunodeficiency, Autosomal Recessive, T Cell-Negative, B Cell-Negative, NK Cell-Positive	AR	Severe combined immunodeficiency due to complete RAG1/2 deficiency is a rare, genetic T-B- severe combined immunodeficiency disorder due to null mutations in recombination activating gene (RAG) 1 and/or RAG2 resulting in less than 1% of wild type V(D)J recombination activity. Patients present with neonatal onset of life-threatening, severe, recurrent infections by opportunistic fungal, viral and bacterial micro-organisms, as well as skin rashes, chronic diarrhea, failure to thrive and fever. Immunologic observations include profound T- and B-cell lymphopenia, normal NK counts and low or absent serum immunoglobulins; some patients may have eosinophilia.	Antiinfectious prophylaxis (though special consideration is necessary related to the use of live vaccines) and early and aggressive treatment of infections may be beneficial; HSCT has been reported	疾病治疗参考-安馨可2019	不需解读	V1			2022.6.14，王星修改疾病名称，“Severe Combined Immunodeficiency, Autosomal Recessive, T Cell-Negative, B Cell-Negative, Nk Cell-Positive”改为“Severe Combined Immunodeficiency, Autosomal Recessive, T Cell-Negative, B Cell-Negative, NK Cell-Positives”
Immunological Deficiency	5897	RAG2		常染色体隐性重症联合免疫缺陷（B/T细胞阴性、NK细胞阳性）	Severe Combined Immunodeficiency, Autosomal Recessive, T Cell-Negative, B Cell-Negative, NK Cell-Positive	AR	Severe combined immunodeficiency due to complete RAG1/2 deficiency is a rare, genetic T-B- severe combined immunodeficiency disorder due to null mutations in recombination activating gene (RAG) 1 and/or RAG2 resulting in less than 1% of wild type V(D)J recombination activity. Patients present with neonatal onset of life-threatening, severe, recurrent infections by opportunistic fungal, viral and bacterial micro-organisms, as well as skin rashes, chronic diarrhea, failure to thrive and fever. Immunologic observations include profound T- and B-cell lymphopenia, normal NK counts and low or absent serum immunoglobulins; some patients may have eosinophilia.	Antiinfectious prophylaxis (though special consideration is necessary related to the use of live vaccines) and early and aggressive treatment of infections may be beneficial; HSCT has been reported	疾病治疗参考-安馨可2019	不需解读	V2	包装	1个基因对应多个疾病，需确定包装疾病	2022.6.14，王星修改疾病分类，“Severe Combined Immunodeficiency, Autosomal Recessive, T Cell-Negative, B Cell-Negative, Nk Cell-Positive”改为“Severe Combined Immunodeficiency, Autosomal Recessive, T Cell-Negative, B Cell-Negative, NK Cell-Positives”	参考V1同类疾病
Immunological Deficiency	100	ADA		腺苷脱氨酶缺乏所致重症联合免疫缺陷	Severe combined immunodeficiency due to ADA deficiency	AR	Adenosine deaminase (ADA) deficiency is a systemic purine metabolic disorder that primarily affects lymphocyte development, viability, and function. Adenosine deaminase (ADA) deficiency is an inherited disorder that damages the immune system and causes severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID). Most individuals with ADA deficiency are diagnosed with SCID in the first 6 months of life. People with SCID lack virtually all immune protection from bacteria, viruses, and fungi. Without treatment, these babies usually do not survive past age 2. The main symptoms of ADA deficiency are pneumonia, chronic diarrhea, and widespread skin rashes. In about 10 percent to 15 percent of cases, onset of immune deficiency is delayed to between 6 and 24 months of age (delayed onset) or even until adulthood (late onset). Immune deficiency in these later-onset cases tends to be less severe, causing primarily recurrent upper respiratory and ear infections. Infections are treated with specific antibiotic, antifungal, and antiviral agents and administration of intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIg); prophylaxis is provided for Pneumocystis jiroveci infection. Adenosine deaminase deficiency is very rare and is estimated to occur in approximately 1 in 200,000 to 1,000,000 newborns worldwide. This disorder is responsible for approximately 15 percent of SCID cases.	Treatment is based on allogenic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT), enzyme replacement therapy with pegylated adenosine deaminase enzyme or gene therapy by infusion of CD34+ marrow cells that have been transduced with an ADA-containing vector.	疾病治疗参考-安馨可2019	不需解读	V2	包装	1个基因对应1个疾病		参考V1同类疾病
Immunological Deficiency	3575	IL7R		重症联合免疫缺陷（B细胞和NK细胞阳性、T细胞阴性）	Severe combined immunodeficiency, T cell-negative, B-cell/natural killer-cell positive	AR	A form of severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID), a genetically and clinically heterogeneous group of rare congenital disorders characterized by impairment of both humoral and cell-mediated immunity, leukopenia, and low or absent antibody levels. Patients present in infancy recurrent, persistent infections by opportunistic organisms. The common characteristic of all types of SCID is absence of T-cell-mediated cellular immunity due to a defect in T-cell development. The disease is caused by mutations affecting the gene represented in this entry.	Treatment is based on use of continuous antimicrobial prophylaxis, immunoglobulin replacement therapy, and strict hygiene measures. However, permanent cure requires immune reconstitution, most often achieved by allogenic hematopoietic stem-cell transplantation (HSCT). Gene therapy has been shown to be effective for patients with ADA deficiency (as well as enzyme replacement therapy) and X-linked SCID	疾病治疗参考-安馨可2019	不需解读	V2	包装	1个基因对应1个疾病		参考V1同类疾病
Immunological Deficiency	3718	JAK3		常染色体隐性T-、B+、NK-重型联合免疫缺陷症	Autosomal Recessive T Cell-Negative、 B Cell-Positive、NK Cell-Negative Severe Combined Immunodeficiency	AR	Severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) T-B+ due to JAK3 deficiency is a form of SCID characterized by severe and recurrent infections, associated with diarrhea and failure to thrive.Annual incidence is between 1/100,000 and 1/1,000,000 live births depending on the population. The disease shares the same clinical picture as SCID due to gamma chain deficiency . Patients present in the first few months of life with the classical clinical features of SCID, i.e. chronic diarrhea, failure to thrive, recurrent respiratory infections and/or generalized infections due to opportunistic pathogens. Patients may present with skin rash, abnormalities of liver function, and pancytopenia. Materno-fetal transfusion-associated graft versus host disease is also associated with the disease. The disease is characterized by a lack of circulating T and NK (Natural Killer) cells and normal number of B lymphocytes.	Treatment is based on use of continuous antimicrobial prophylaxis, immunoglobulin replacement therapy, and strict hygiene measures. However, permanent cure requires immune reconstitution, most often achieved by allogenic hematopoietic stem-cell transplantation (HSCT). Gene therapy has been shown to be effective for patients with ADA deficiency (as well as enzyme replacement therapy) and X-linked SCID.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet，Severe combined immunodeficiency	不需解读	V2	包装	1个基因对应1个疾病		参考V1同类疾病
Immunological Deficiency	4210	MEFV	Familial Mediterranean Fever	家族性地中海热	Familial Mediterranean Fever	AR	FMF type 1 is characterized by recurrent short episodes of inflammation and serositis including fever, peritonitis, synovitis, pleuritis, and, rarely, pericarditis and meningitis.FMF type 2 is characterized by amyloidosis as the first clinical manifestation of FMF in an otherwise asymptomatic individual.It is common in children and adults.FMF type 1 is characterized by recurrent short episodes of inflammation and serositis including fever, peritonitis, synovitis, pleuritis, and, rarely, pericarditis and meningitis.	Colchicine (oral or by I.V.) is the drug used to treat FMF. It reduces or eliminates FMF attacks and prevents the occurrence of amyloidosis type AA (see this term). Dosage ranges up to 0.03mg/kg/body weight/daily, or to a maximum of 3mg/daily, and must be taken regularly on a life-long basis. During an attack a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug can be administered.Patients intolerant to colchicine have no alternative of matching efficacy, but Anakinra, interferon-alpha and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) have shown encouraging results in some patients. Annual physical examinations along with regulary monitoring of serum amyloid A protein (SAA) is recommended to prevent amyloidosis; colchicine can enhance B12 malabsorption and in rare cases can causes alopecia (see this term) and bone marrow suppression. Macrolides, diltiazem, grapefruit and cyclosporine should not be taken with colchicine as fatal toxicity can occur. Dialysis and organ transplantation might be necessary for those with renal amyloidosis.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Immunological Deficiency	959	CD40LG	Immunodeficiency with Hyper-IgM	免疫缺陷伴IgM增高1型	Immunodeficiency with Hyper-IgM, type 1	XLR	X-linked?hyper IgM syndrome (HIGM1), a disorder of abnormal T- and B-cell function, is characterized by low serum concentrations of IgG and IgA and normal or elevated serum concentrations of IgM. Mitogen proliferation may be normal, but NK- and T-cell cytotoxicity are frequently impaired. Antigen-specific responses may be decreased or absent. The range of clinical findings varies, even within the same family. More than 50% of males with HIGM1 develop symptoms by age one year, and more than 90% are symptomatic by age four years. HIGM1 usually presents in infancy with recurrent upper- and lower-respiratory tract bacterial infections, opportunistic infections, and recurrent or protracted diarrhea associated with failure to thrive. Neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, and anemia are common. Autoimmune and/or inflammatory disorders, such as sclerosing cholangitis, have been reported. Significant neurologic complications, often the result of a CNS infection, are seen in 10%-15% of?affected?males. Liver disease, including primary cirrhosis and carcinomas (bile duct carcinomas, hepatocellular carcinomas, adenocarcinomas of the liver and gall bladder), and tumors of the gastrointestinal tract (carcinoid of the pancreas, glucagonoma of the pancreas) are common life-threatening complications in adolescents and young adults with HIGM1. Affected males are also at an increased risk for lymphoma, particularly Hodgkin's disease associated with Epstein-Barr virus infection.	Gene therapy is also being studied as another approach to therapy for individuals with hyper IgM syndrome. In gene therapy, the defective gene present in a patient is replaced with a normal gene to enable the production of the active enzyme and prevent the development and progression of the disease in question. Given the permanent transfer of the normal gene, which is able to produce active enzyme at all sites of disease, this form of therapy is theoretically most likely to lead to a “cure.” However, at this time, there remain some technical difficulties to resolve before gene therapy can be advocated as a viable alternative approach.	疾病治疗参考-NORD	金伟伟	V1
Immunological Deficiency	1991	ELANE	Severe Congenital Neutropenia	重型先天性中性粒细胞减少症1型	Neutropenia, severe congenital 1, autosomal dominant	AD	ELANE-related neutropenia includes congenital neutropenia and cyclic neutropenia, both of which are primary hematologic disorders characterized by recurrent fever, skin and oropharyngeal inflammation (i.e., mouth ulcers, gingivitis, sinusitis, and pharyngitis), and cervical adenopathy. Infectious complications are generally more severe in congenital neutropenia than in cyclic neutropenia.In congenital neutropenia, omphalitis immediately after birth may be the first sign; in untreated children diarrhea, pneumonia, and deep abscesses in the liver, lungs, and subcutaneous tissues are common in the first year of life. After 15 years with granulocyte colony stimulating factor treatment, the risk of developing myelodysplasia (MDS) or acute myelogenous leukemia AML is approximately 15%-25%.	For affected individuals with a well-matched donor, HSCT may be the preferred treatment option .HSCT is the only alternative therapy for individuals with congenital neutropenia who are refractory to high-dose G-CSF or who undergo malignant transformation.	疾病治疗参考-安馨可2019	不需解读	V1
Endocrine System Deficiency	1584	CYP11B1	Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia	11-β-羟化酶缺乏性先天性肾上腺皮质增生症	Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia due to 11-beta-Hydroxylase-Deficiency	AR	Congenital adrenal hyperplasia due to 11 beta-hydroxylase (CYP11B1) deficiency is a rare form of congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH; see this term) characterized by glucocorticoid deficiency, hyperandrogenism, hypertension and virilization in females.	Prenatal treatment with dexamethasone can be administered to female fetuses at risk of developing classic CAH, but this procedure is still controversial due to potential side effects. When administered before the 9th week of gestation, it prevents the excessive androgen production responsible for genital virilization in females. If diagnosed after birth, vaginoplasty surgery is usually performed on girls, but the timing of the surgery is still debated. Lifelong GC replacement therapy is needed to treat adrenal insufficiency and to decrease elevated androgen hormone levels in order to allow for normal growth and puberty, and normal health without hypertension. Hydrocortisone is usually given to children as GC replacement therapy (10-15mg/m2/day divided into 2 or 3 doses). Dosage is monitored and should be increased during times of stress or intercurrent disease. There is a risk of developing acute adrenal insufficiency (see this term), hypertension and other complications due to chronic hyperandrogenemia in case of poorly controlled disease. Excessive treatment with GC causes cushingoid features and metabolic and cardiovascular disturbances. In all cases, excess mineralocorticoid causes hypertension. Regular follow-up by a multidisciplinary team, including pediatric endocrinologists, surgeons, gynecologists, and psychologists, is important.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	王星	V1
Endocrine System Deficiency	1586	CYP17A1		17-α羟化酶缺乏性先天性肾上腺皮质增生症	Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia due to 17-alpha Hydroxylase Deficiency	AR	Congenital adrenal hyperplasia due to 17-alpha-hydroxylase deficiency is a very rare form of congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH) characterized by glucocorticoid deficiency, hypergonadotrophic hypogonadism and severe hypokalemic hypertension.	Lifelong hormone replacement therapy is needed to treat adrenal insufficiency and decrease elevated androgen levels, to allow for normal growth and puberty in children. Hydrocortisone regulates menstrual cycles and promotes fertility in adult females. Hydrocortisone is usually given to children as glucocorticoid replacement therapy (dosage is monitored and should be increased during times of stress or intercurrent disease) and 9 alpha-fludrocortisone acetate for mineralocorticoid replacement. Genital reconstructive surgery in affected females is no longer considered as an emergency procedure and the ideal timing remains to be determined. Psychological support is often needed. Methods of hair removal treat hirsutism. Menstrual cycles can sometimes be regulated with oral contraceptives. Dexamethasone can be given to pregnant women at risk of having offspring with the mutation (when fetus is female) in order to prevent virilization in girls. This treatment is still controversial due to potential adverse effects.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Endocrine System Deficiency	3284	HSD3B2		3-β-羟类固醇脱氢酶缺乏性先天性肾上腺皮质增生症	Adrenal hyperplasia, congenital, due to 3-beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase 2 deficiency	AR	3-beta–hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (3BHSD) deficiency is a rare genetic disorder of steroid biosynthesis that results in decreased production of all 3 groups of adrenal steroids, which include mineralocorticoids, glucocorticoids, and sex steroids. Decreased mineralocorticoid secretion results in varying degrees of salt wasting in both males and females, and deficient androgen production results in ambiguous genitalia in 46,XY males. Much heterogeneity is observed in the clinical presentation of this disorder. Although first described in male infants with ambiguous genitalia and severe salt wasting, 3-beta–hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase deficiency also occurs in 46,XX female infants (who may have mild clitoromegaly), as well as in older patients who present with a milder or so-called late-onset variant. The exact prevalence of 3β-HSD deficiency is unknown.	Lifelong hormone replacement therapy is needed to treat adrenal insufficiency and decrease elevated androgen levels, to allow for normal growth and puberty in children. Hydrocortisone regulates menstrual cycles and promotes fertility in adult females. Hydrocortisone is usually given to children as glucocorticoid replacement therapy (dosage is monitored and should be increased during times of stress or intercurrent disease) and 9 alpha-fludrocortisone acetate for mineralocorticoid replacement. Genital reconstructive surgery in affected females is no longer considered as an emergency procedure and the ideal timing remains to be determined. Psychological support is often needed. Methods of hair removal treat hirsutism. Menstrual cycles can sometimes be regulated with oral contraceptives. Dexamethasone can be given to pregnant women at risk of having offspring with the mutation (when fetus is female) in order to prevent virilization in girls. This treatment is still controversial due to potential adverse effects.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet，Congenital adrenal hyperplasia	王星	V2	包装	1个基因对应1个疾病		参考V1同类疾病
Endocrine System Deficiency	6770	STAR		脂质先天性肾上腺增生	Lipoid Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia	AR	The most severe form of adrenal hyperplasia. It is a condition characterized by onset of profound adrenocortical insufficiency shortly after birth, hyperpigmentation reflecting increased production of pro-opiomelanocortin, elevated plasma renin activity as a consequence of reduced aldosterone synthesis, and male pseudohermaphroditism resulting from deficient fetal testicular testosterone synthesis.	Treatment includes physiological replacement with glucocorticoids, mineralocorticoids, and in the newborn period, salt. Genetic males have female external genitalia and typically undergo orchidectomy and are raised as females. They require estrogen replacement to induce puberty and long term sex steroid administration.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	王星	V2	包装	1个基因对应1个疾病		参考V1同类疾病
Endocrine System Deficiency	3730	ANOS1	Kallmann Syndrome	Kallmann综合征1型	Hypogonadotropic hypogonadism 1 with or without anosmia (Kallmann syndrome 1)	XLR	Kallmann syndrome is a condition characterized by delayed or absent puberty and an impaired sense of smell. This disorder is a form of hypogonadotropic hypogonadism, which is a condition resulting from a lack of production of certain hormones that direct sexual development. These hormones are normally made in a part of the brain called the hypothalamus. Males born with hypogonadotropic hypogonadism often have an unusually small penis (micropenis) and undescended testes (cryptorchidism). At puberty, most affected individuals do not develop secondary sex characteristics, such as the growth of facial hair and deepening of the voice in males, the start of monthly periods (menstruation) and breast development in females, and a growth spurt in both sexes. Without treatment, most affected men and women are unable to have biological children (infertile). In Kallmann syndrome, the sense of smell is either diminished (hyposmia) or completely absent (anosmia). This feature distinguishes Kallmann syndrome from most other forms of hypogonadotropic hypogonadism, which do not affect the sense of smell. Many people with Kallmann syndrome are not aware that they are unable to detect odors until the impairment is discovered through testing. Kallmann syndrome can have a wide variety of additional signs and symptoms. These include a failure of one kidney to develop (unilateral renal agenesis), abnormalities of bones in the fingers or toes, a cleft lip with or without an opening in the roof of the mouth (a cleft palate), abnormal eye movements, hearing loss, and abnormalities of tooth development. Some affected individuals have a feature called bimanual synkinesis, in which the movements of one hand are mirrored by the other hand. Bimanual synkinesis can make it difficult to do tasks that require the hands to move separately, such as playing a musical instrument.	Hormonal replacement therapy is used to induce puberty, and later, fertility. Testosterone esters are usually used and sometimes human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) injections in combination with follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) or in monotherapy are given to males to achieve normal virilization and increased testicular volume. In adults combined gonadotropin therapy is mandatory to stimulate spermatogenesis. In females, estrogen is administered to induce breast development and genital development along with progestin to establish endometrial cyclicity. Pulsatile GnRH administration or exogenous gonadotropins are used to induce folliculogenesis and ovulation and therefore to restore fertility. There is currently no treatment for anosmia.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Endocrine System Deficiency	2260	FGFR1		Kallmann综合征2型	Hypogonadotropic hypogonadism 2 with or without anosmia	AD	Kallmann syndrome is a condition characterized by delayed or absent puberty and an impaired sense of smell.This disorder is a form of hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (HH), which is a condition affecting the production of hormones that direct sexual development. Males with hypogonadotropic hypogonadism are often born with an unusually small penis (micropenis) and undescended testes (cryptorchidism). At puberty, most affected individuals do not develop secondary sex characteristics, such as the growth of facial hair and deepening of the voice in males. Affected females usually do not begin menstruating at puberty and have little or no breast development. In some people, puberty is incomplete or delayed.Kallmann syndrome is estimated to affect 1 in 10,000 to 86,000 people and occurs more often in males than in females. Kallmann syndrome 1 is the most common form of the disorder.	Hormonal replacement therapy is used to induce puberty, and later, fertility. Testosterone esters are usually used and sometimes human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) injections in combination with follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) or in monotherapy are given to males to achieve normal virilization and increased testicular volume. In adults combined gonadotropin therapy is mandatory to stimulate spermatogenesis. In females, estrogen is administered to induce breast development and genital development along with progestin to establish endometrial cyclicity. Pulsatile GnRH administration or exogenous gonadotropins are used to induce folliculogenesis and ovulation and therefore to restore fertility. There is currently no treatment for anosmia.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Endocrine System Deficiency	128674	PROKR2		Kallmann综合征3型	Kallmann Syndrome 3	AD	Kallmann syndrome is a condition characterized by delayed or absent puberty and an impaired sense of smell.This disorder is a form of hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (HH), which is a condition affecting the production of hormones that direct sexual development. Males with hypogonadotropic hypogonadism are often born with an unusually small penis (micropenis) and undescended testes (cryptorchidism). At puberty, most affected individuals do not develop secondary sex characteristics, such as the growth of facial hair and deepening of the voice in males. Affected females usually do not begin menstruating at puberty and have little or no breast development. In some people, puberty is incomplete or delayed.Kallmann syndrome is estimated to affect 1 in 10,000 to 86,000 people and occurs more often in males than in females. Kallmann syndrome 1 is the most common form of the disorder.	Hormonal replacement therapy is used to induce puberty, and later, fertility. Testosterone esters are usually used and sometimes human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) injections in combination with follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) or in monotherapy are given to males to achieve normal virilization and increased testicular volume. In adults combined gonadotropin therapy is mandatory to stimulate spermatogenesis. In females, estrogen is administered to induce breast development and genital development along with progestin to establish endometrial cyclicity. Pulsatile GnRH administration or exogenous gonadotropins are used to induce folliculogenesis and ovulation and therefore to restore fertility. There is currently no treatment for anosmia.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Endocrine System Deficiency	55636	CHD7		低促性腺激素性性腺功能减退症5型伴或不伴嗅觉异常	Hypogonadotropic hypogonadism 5 with or without anosmia	AD	Congenital idiopathic hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (IHH) is a disorder characterized by absent or incomplete sexual maturation by the age of 18 years, in conjunction with low levels of circulating gonadotropins and testosterone and no other abnormalities of the hypothalamic-pituitary axis. Idiopathic hypogonadotropic hypogonadism can be caused by an isolated defect in gonadotropin-releasing hormone  release, action, or both. Other associated nonreproductive phenotypes, such as anosmia, cleft palate, and sensorineural hearing loss, occur with variable frequency. In the presence of anosmia, idiopathic hypogonadotropic hypogonadism has been called 'Kallmann syndrome (KS),' whereas in the presence of a normal sense of smell, it has been termed 'normosmic idiopathic hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (nIHH)' . Because families have been found to segregate both KS and nIHH, the disorder is here referred to as 'hypogonadotropic hypogonadism with or without anosmia (HH).	Hormonal replacement therapy is used to induce puberty, and later, fertility. Testosterone esters are usually used and sometimes human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) injections in combination with follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) or in monotherapy are given to males to achieve normal virilization and increased testicular volume. In adults combined gonadotropin therapy is mandatory to stimulate spermatogenesis. In females, estrogen is administered to induce breast development and genital development along with progestin to establish endometrial cyclicity. Pulsatile GnRH administration or exogenous gonadotropins are used to induce folliculogenesis and ovulation and therefore to restore fertility. There is currently no treatment for anosmia.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Endocrine System Deficiency	190	NR0B1	Adrenal Hypoplasia Congenita	X连锁先天性肾上腺发育不全	X-Linked Adrenal Hypoplasia Congenita	XLR	X-linked adrenal hypoplasia congenita is a genetic disorder that mainly affects males. It involves many endocrine tissues in the body, especially the adrenal glands. Adrenal insufficiency typically begins in infancy or in childhood and can cause vomiting, difficulty with feeding, dehydration, extremely low blood sugar (hypoglycemia), low sodium levels, and shock. Affected males may also lack male sex hormones, which leads to underdeveloped reproductive tissues, undescended testicles (cryptorchidism), delayed puberty, and an inability to father children (infertility). Females are rarely affected by this disorder, but a few cases have been reported of adrenal insufficiency or a lack of female sex hormones, resulting in underdeveloped reproductive tissues, delayed puberty, and an absence of menstruation. Symptomatic treatment and prognosis. X-linked adrenal hypoplasia congenita is estimated to affect 1 in 12,500 newborns.	The fundamentals of the treatment of an adrenal crisis are similar in children and adult patients. Children warrant close monitoring. X-linked AHC gets treated with glucocorticoid, mineralocorticoid, and salt supplementation starting at two weeks of life. Symptoms usually resolve by two months of age, and ACTH and plasma renin activity return to normal. Management involves life-long glucocorticoid replacement therapy. According to guidelines, all adrenal hypoplasia patients who are receiving treatment should keep steroid emergency cards. Hydrocortisone is the preferred steroid as it has mineralocorticoid activity. However, if ordering a cosyntropin stimulation test to confirm the diagnosis, dexamethasone can be given before the test without any interference of results.Growth hormone therapy (GnRH analogs) should start in patients with growth hormone deficiency.Testosterone replacement is required when there is delayed puberty during adolescence to ensure normal development of secondary sexual characteristics and bone mineralization.	疾病治疗参考-https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK549779/	王星	V1
Endocrine System Deficiency	7173	TPO	Hypothyroidism Congenital	甲状腺分泌障碍2A型	Thyroid dyshormonogenesis 2A	AR	A disorder due to defective conversion of accumulated iodide to organically bound iodine. The iodide organification defect can be partial or complete.	Levothyroxine is the treatment of choice (starting dose 10-15mcg/kg/day), with the immediate goal to raise the serum T4 above 130 nmol/L (10 ug/dL) as rapidly as possible; with these doses, serum TSH usually normalizes in 2-4 weeks. Frequent laboratory monitoring in infancy is essential to ensure optimal neurocognitive outcome. Serum TSH and T4 or free T4 should be measured every 1-2 months in the first 6 months of life, every 3 months between 6 months and 3 years of age, and 4 weeks after any dose change.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V2	包装	1个基因对应1个疾病		参考V1同类疾病
Endocrine System Deficiency	7038	TG		甲状腺分泌障碍3型	Thyroid dyshormonogenesis 3	AR	A disorder due to thyroid dyshormonogenesis, causing large goiters of elastic and soft consistency in the majority of patients. Although the degree of thyroid dysfunction varies considerably among patients with defective thyroglobulin synthesis, patients usually have a relatively high serum free triiodothyronine (T3) concentration with disproportionately low free tetraiodothyronine (T4) level. The maintenance of relatively high free T3 levels prevents profound tissue hypothyroidism except in brain and pituitary, which are dependent on T4 supply, resulting in neurologic and intellectual defects in some cases.	Levothyroxine is the treatment of choice (starting dose 10-15mcg/kg/day), with the immediate goal to raise the serum T4 above 130 nmol/L (10 ug/dL) as rapidly as possible; with these doses, serum TSH usually normalizes in 2-4 weeks. Frequent laboratory monitoring in infancy is essential to ensure optimal neurocognitive outcome. Serum TSH and T4 or free T4 should be measured every 1-2 months in the first 6 months of life, every 3 months between 6 months and 3 years of age, and 4 weeks after any dose change.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V2	包装	1个基因对应多个疾病，需确定包装疾病		参考V1同类疾病
Endocrine System Deficiency	405753	DUOXA2		甲状腺分泌障碍5型	Thyroid dyshormonogenesis 5	AR	A disorder due to thyroid dyshormonogenesis, causing hypothyroidism, goiter, and variable mental deficits derived from unrecognized and untreated hypothyroidism.	Levothyroxine is the treatment of choice (starting dose 10-15mcg/kg/day), with the immediate goal to raise the serum T4 above 130 nmol/L (10 ug/dL) as rapidly as possible; with these doses, serum TSH usually normalizes in 2-4 weeks. Frequent laboratory monitoring in infancy is essential to ensure optimal neurocognitive outcome. Serum TSH and T4 or free T4 should be measured every 1-2 months in the first 6 months of life, every 3 months between 6 months and 3 years of age, and 4 weeks after any dose change.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Endocrine System Deficiency	50506	DUOX2		甲状腺分泌障碍6型	Thyroid dyshormonogenesis 6	AR	Congenital hypothyroidism is a partial or complete loss of function of the thyroid gland (hypothyroidism) that affects infants from birth (congenital). The thyroid gland is a butterfly-shaped tissue in the lower neck. It makes iodine-containing hormones that play an important role in regulating growth, brain development, and the rate of chemical reactions in the body (metabolism). People with congenital hypothyroidism have lower-than-normal levels of these important hormonesSigns and symptoms of congenital hypothyroidism result from the shortage of thyroid hormones. Affected babies may show no features of the condition, although some babies with congenital hypothyroidism are less active and sleep more than normal. They may have difficulty feeding and experience constipation. If untreated, congenital hypothyroidism can lead to intellectual disability and slow growth. In the United States and many other countries, all hospitals test newborns for congenital hypothyroidism. If treatment begins in the first two weeks after birth, infants usually develop normally.	Levothyroxine is the treatment of choice (starting dose 10-15mcg/kg/day), with the immediate goal to raise the serum T4 above 130 nmol/L (10 ug/dL) as rapidly as possible; with these doses, serum TSH usually normalizes in 2-4 weeks. Frequent laboratory monitoring in infancy is essential to ensure optimal neurocognitive outcome. Serum TSH and T4 or free T4 should be measured every 1-2 months in the first 6 months of life, every 3 months between 6 months and 3 years of age, and 4 weeks after any dose change.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Endocrine System Deficiency	5626	PROP1		联合性垂体激素缺乏症2型	Combined pituitary hormone deficiency  2	AR	Combined pituitary hormone deficiency is a condition that causes a shortage (deficiency) of several hormones produced by the pituitary gland, which is located at the base of the brain. A lack of these hormones may affect the development of many parts of the body. The first signs of this condition include a failure to grow at the expected rate and short stature that usually becomes apparent in early childhood.People with combined pituitary hormone deficiency may have hypothyroidism, which is underactivity of the butterfly-shaped thyroid gland in the lower neck. Hypothyroidism can cause many symptoms, including weight gain and fatigue. Other features of combined pituitary hormone deficiency include delayed or absent puberty and lack the ability to have biological children (infertility). The condition can also be associated with a deficiency of the hormone cortisol. Cortisol deficiency can impair the body's immune system, causing individuals to be more susceptible to infection.	An appropriate replacement of hormone deficiencies is required. Strict follow-up is necessary because patients develop new deficiencies (for example late onset corticotroph deficiency in patients with PROP1 mutations).	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Endocrine System Deficiency	7253	TSHR		先天性非甲状腺肿性甲状腺功能减退症1型	Hypothyroidism Congenital Nongoitrous 1	AR	A non-autoimmune condition characterized by resistance to thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) leading to increased levels of plasma TSH and low levels of thyroid hormone. It presents variable severity depending on the completeness of the defect. Most patients are euthyroid and asymptomatic, with a normal sized thyroid gland. Only a subset of patients develop hypothyroidism and present a hypoplastic thyroid gland.	Levothyroxine is the treatment of choice; the recommended starting dose is 10-15 mcg/kg/day. The immediate goals of treatment are to raise the serum T4 above 130 nmol/L (10 ug/dL) as rapidly as possible; with these starting doses, serum TSH usually normalizes in 2-4 weeks. Frequent laboratory monitoring in infancy is essential to ensure optimal neurocognitive outcome. Serum TSH and T4 or free T4 should be measured every 1-2 months in the first 6 months of life, every 3 months between 6 months and 3 years of age, and 4 weeks after any dose change.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet大类Congenital hypothyroidism	王星	V1
Endocrine System Deficiency	7849	PAX8		先天性非甲状腺肿性甲状腺功能减退症2型	Hypothyroidism Congenital Nongoitrous 2	AD	A disease characterized by thyroid dysgenesis, the most frequent cause of congenital hypothyroidism, accounting for 85% of case. The thyroid gland can be completely absent (athyreosis), ectopically located and/or severely hypoplastic. Ectopic thyroid gland is the most frequent malformation, with thyroid tissue being found most often at the base of the tongue.	Levothyroxine is the treatment of choice; the recommended starting dose is 10-15 mcg/kg/day. The immediate goals of treatment are to raise the serum T4 above 130 nmol/L (10 ug/dL) as rapidly as possible; with these starting doses, serum TSH usually normalizes in 2-4 weeks. Frequent laboratory monitoring in infancy is essential to ensure optimal neurocognitive outcome. Serum TSH and T4 or free T4 should be measured every 1-2 months in the first 6 months of life, every 3 months between 6 months and 3 years of age, and 4 weeks after any dose change.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet大类Congenital hypothyroidism	王星	V2	包装	1个基因对应1个疾病		参考V1同类疾病
Endocrine System Deficiency	3767	KCNJ11	Diabetes mellitus, permanent neonatal	新生儿永久性糖尿病2型	Diabetes, permanent neonatal 2, with or without neurologic features	AD	Permanent neonatal diabetes mellitus-2 (PNDM2) is characterized by onset of insulin-requiring hyperglycemia within the first months of life that requires insulin therapy throughout life. Some patients additionally have marked developmental delay, muscle weakness, and epilepsy (Gloyn et al., 2004). The triad of developmental delay, epilepsy, and neonatal diabetes is known as DEND 	Immediate treatment involves rehydration and administration of intravenous insulin. Insulin can rapidly be switched to subcutaneously administered preparations. The aim is to control hyperglycemia and to enable catch-up growth. In those with KCNJ11 or ABCC8 mutations, a complete neurological assessment is recommended. Patients with activating mutations in these two genes can be treated long-term with oral sulfonylureas (currently in research protocols as no market authorization has yet been granted in this indication), and others with long-term insulin therapy.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Endocrine System Deficiency	6833	ABCC8		新生儿永久性糖尿病3型	Diabetes mellitus, permanent neonatal 3, with or without neurologic features	AD,AR	Permanent neonatal diabetes mellitus-3 (PNDM3) is characterized by the onset of mild to severe hyperglycemia within the first months of life, and requires lifelong therapy (summary by Babenko et al., 2006). Some patients also have neurologic features, including developmental delay and epilepsy (Proks et al., 2006; Babenko et al., 2006). The triad of developmental delay, epilepsy, and neonatal diabetes is known as DEND.	Immediate treatment involves rehydration and administration of intravenous insulin. Insulin can rapidly be switched to subcutaneously administered preparations. The aim is to control hyperglycemia and to enable catch-up growth. In those with KCNJ11 or ABCC8 mutations, a complete neurological assessment is recommended. Patients with activating mutations in these two genes can be treated long-term with oral sulfonylureas (currently in research protocols as no market authorization has yet been granted in this indication), and others with long-term insulin therapy.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Endocrine System Deficiency	6833	ABCC8	Familial Hyperinsulinemic Hypoglycemia	家族性高胰岛素血症1型	Familial Hyperinsulinemic Hypoglycemia 1	AD,AR	Familial hyperinsulinism (referred to as FHI in this GeneReview) is characterized by hypoglycemia that ranges from severe neonatal-onset, difficult-to-manage disease to childhood-onset disease with mild symptoms and difficult-to-diagnose hypoglycemia. Neonatal-onset disease manifests within hours to two days after birth. Childhood-onset disease manifests during the first months or years of life. In the newborn period, presenting symptoms may be nonspecific, including seizures, hypotonia, poor feeding, and apnea. In severe cases, serum glucose concentrations are typically extremely low and thus easily recognized, whereas in milder cases, variable and mild hypoglycemia may make the diagnosis more difficult. Even within the same family, disease manifestations can range from mild to severe.	At initial diagnosis, hypoglycemia is corrected with intravenous glucose to normalize plasma glucose concentration and prevent brain damage. Long-term medical management includes the use of diazoxide, somatostatin analogs, nifedipine, glucagon, recombinant IGF-I, glucocorticoids, human growth hormone, dietary intervention, or combinations of these therapies. In individuals in whom aggressive medical management fails to maintain plasma glucose concentration within safe limits, or in whom such therapy cannot be safely maintained over time, pancreatic resection is considered.	疾病治疗参考中文和同类疾病	王星	V1	包装至报告疾病列表		包装疾病以外要报告的疾病
Endocrine System Deficiency	3767	KCNJ11		家族性高胰岛素血症2型	Familial Hyperinsulinemic Hypoglycemia 2	AR	Familial hyperinsulinism (referred to as FHI in this GeneReview) is characterized by hypoglycemia that ranges from severe neonatal-onset, difficult-to-manage disease to childhood-onset disease with mild symptoms and difficult-to-diagnose hypoglycemia. Neonatal-onset disease manifests within hours to two days after birth. Childhood-onset disease manifests during the first months or years of life. In the newborn period, presenting symptoms may be nonspecific, including seizures, hypotonia, poor feeding, and apnea. In severe cases, serum glucose concentrations are typically extremely low and thus easily recognized, whereas in milder cases, variable and mild hypoglycemia may make the diagnosis more difficult. Even within the same family, disease manifestations can range from mild to severe.	At initial diagnosis, hypoglycemia is corrected with intravenous glucose to normalize plasma glucose concentration and prevent brain damage. Long-term medical management includes the use of diazoxide, somatostatin analogs, nifedipine, glucagon, recombinant IGF-I, glucocorticoids, human growth hormone, dietary intervention, or combinations of these therapies. In individuals in whom aggressive medical management fails to maintain plasma glucose concentration within safe limits, or in whom such therapy cannot be safely maintained over time, pancreatic resection is considered.	疾病治疗参考中文和同类疾病	王星	V1	包装至报告疾病列表		包装疾病以外要报告的疾病
Endocrine System Deficiency	3033	HADH		家族性高胰岛素血症4型	Familial Hyperinsulinemic Hypoglycemia 4	AR	Familial hyperinsulinism (referred to as FHI in this GeneReview) is characterized by hypoglycemia that ranges from severe neonatal-onset, difficult-to-manage disease to childhood-onset disease with mild symptoms and difficult-to-diagnose hypoglycemia. Neonatal-onset disease manifests within hours to two days after birth. Childhood-onset disease manifests during the first months or years of life. In the newborn period, presenting symptoms may be nonspecific, including seizures, hypotonia, poor feeding, and apnea. In severe cases, serum glucose concentrations are typically extremely low and thus easily recognized, whereas in milder cases, variable and mild hypoglycemia may make the diagnosis more difficult. Even within the same family, disease manifestations can range from mild to severe.	At initial diagnosis, hypoglycemia is corrected with intravenous glucose to normalize plasma glucose concentration and prevent brain damage. Long-term medical management includes the use of diazoxide, somatostatin analogs, nifedipine, glucagon, recombinant IGF-I, glucocorticoids, human growth hormone, dietary intervention, or combinations of these therapies. In individuals in whom aggressive medical management fails to maintain plasma glucose concentration within safe limits, or in whom such therapy cannot be safely maintained over time, pancreatic resection is considered.	疾病治疗参考-安馨可2019	不需解读	V2	包装	1个基因对应多个疾病，需确定包装疾病	记得V1有这个疾病，包装疾病以外也报的疾病加到备注，综合看这个疾病是否包装？<br/>V1包装疾病有家族性高胰岛素血症性低血糖症5型（INSR），包装疾病以外也报的疾病是家族性高胰岛素低血糖1（ABCC8）和家族性高胰岛素低血糖2（KCNJ11）	参考V1同类疾病
Endocrine System Deficiency	3643	INSR		家族性高胰岛素血症5型	Familial Hyperinsulinemic Hypoglycemia 5	AD	Familial hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia [MIM:256450], also referred to as congenital hyperinsulinism, nesidioblastosis, or persistent hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia of infancy (PPHI), is the most common cause of persistent hypoglycemia in infancy and is due to defective negative feedback regulation of insulin secretion by low glucose levels.	At initial diagnosis, hypoglycemia is corrected with intravenous glucose to normalize plasma glucose concentration and prevent brain damage. Long-term medical management includes the use of diazoxide, somatostatin analogs, nifedipine, glucagon, recombinant IGF-I, glucocorticoids, human growth hormone, dietary intervention, or combinations of these therapies. In individuals in whom aggressive medical management fails to maintain plasma glucose concentration within safe limits, or in whom such therapy cannot be safely maintained over time, pancreatic resection is considered.	疾病治疗参考中文和同类疾病	王星	V1
Neuromuscular Deficiency	501	ALDH7A1	Pyridoxine-Dependent Epilepsy	吡哆醇依赖性癫痫	Pyridoxine-Dependent Epilepsy	AR	Pyridoxine dependent seizures (PDS) is a condition characterized by early onset epilepsy that is unresponsive to any anticonvulsivant therapy except pyridoxine (vitamin B6). The estimated incidence is 1:500.000 live births. The early onset form is the most common, with epileptic seizures occurring in the first days after birth (usually within the first 24 to 48 hours). However, some patients present with later onset, occurring as late as 2 years of age. A wide variety of seizure types may be observed (myoclonic, atonic, partial or generalized seizures, infantile spasms). Abnormal fetal movements have also been reported in association with this condition suggesting intrauterine seizures. Additional clinical signs include variable cognitive impairment and learning difficulties, irritability, abnormal tone and squinting. Brain imaging may demonstrate ventricular dilatation, cortical atrophy, intracerebral hemorrhage, and/or abnormal myelination. The biochemical defect underlying PDS remains unknown. Pyridoxine transport and metabolism in patients appear normal. Anomalies of glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD), a pyridoxal dependent enzyme, have been suspected. High levels of glutamic acid (substrate of the enzyme) and low levels of GABA (product) have been found in the cerebrospinal fluid and brain of some patients.	Standard treatment involves lifelong oral pyridoxine supplementation (15-30mg/kg/day, divided into 3 doses in infants; up to 200mg/day in neonates and 500mg/day in adults) to control seizures, as well as regular clinical follow-up. Initial interruption of status epilepticus requires up to five 100mg doses of pyridoxine administered intravenously while closely monitoring patients for signs of cardio-respiratory arrest. Dietary lysine restriction is also recommended as an adjunct to pyridoxine therapy. In at-risk pregnancies, mothers may take supplemental pyridoxine (100mg/day) during the last half of gestation and newborns should received prophylactic pyridoxine until diagnostic tests are finalized.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Neuromuscular Deficiency	65055	REEP1	hereditary spastic paraplegia	常染色体显性痉挛性截瘫31型	Autosomal Dominant Spastic paraplegia 31	AD	A form of spastic paraplegia, a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by a slow, gradual, progressive weakness and spasticity of the lower limbs. Rate of progression and the severity of symptoms are quite variable. Initial symptoms may include difficulty with balance, weakness and stiffness in the legs, muscle spasms, and dragging the toes when walking. In some forms of the disorder, bladder symptoms (such as incontinence) may appear, or the weakness and stiffness may spread to other parts of the body.	Management is symptomatic with physiotherapy, anti-spasticity drugs (baclofen, tizanidine, diazepam, botulinum toxin), and orthoses.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet，Hereditary spastic paraplegia	王星	V1
Neuromuscular Deficiency	51062	ATL1		常染色体显性痉挛性截瘫3A型	Autosomal Dominant Spastic paraplegia 3A	AD	Spastic paraplegia 3A (SPG3A) is a hereditary spastic paraplegia (HSP) characterized by progressive bilateral and mostly symmetric spasticity and weakness of the legs, diminished vibration sense caused by degeneration of the corticospinal tracts and dorsal columns, and urinary bladder hyperactivity. The average age of onset is four years. More than 80% of reported individuals manifest spastic gait before the end of the first decade of life. Most persons with early-onset SPG3A have a “pure” (“uncomplicated”) HSP; however, complicated HSP with axonal motor neuropathy and/or distal amyotrophy with lower motor neuron involvement (Silver syndrome phenotype) have been observed. The rate of progression in SPG3A is slow, and wheelchair dependency or need for a walking aid (cane, walker, or wheelchair) is relatively rare.	Management is symptomatic with physiotherapy, anti-spasticity drugs (baclofen, tizanidine, diazepam, botulinum toxin), and orthoses.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet，Hereditary spastic paraplegia	王星	V1
Neuromuscular Deficiency	6683	SPAST		常染色体显性痉挛性截瘫4型	Autosomal Dominant Spastic paraplegia 4	AD	A form of spastic paraplegia, a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by a slow, gradual, progressive weakness and spasticity of the lower limbs. Rate of progression and the severity of symptoms are quite variable. Initial symptoms may include difficulty with balance, weakness and stiffness in the legs, muscle spasms, and dragging the toes when walking. In some forms of the disorder, bladder symptoms (such as incontinence) may appear, or the weakness and stiffness may spread to other parts of the body.	Management is symptomatic with physiotherapy, anti-spasticity drugs (baclofen, tizanidine, diazepam, botulinum toxin), and orthoses.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet，Hereditary spastic paraplegia	王星	V1
Neuromuscular Deficiency	80208	SPG11		常染色体隐性痉挛性截瘫11型	Autosomal Recessive Spastic Paraplegia type 11	AR	Hereditay Spastic Paraplegia with a Thin Corpus Callosum(HSP-TCC) is characterized by progressive spasticity and weakness of the lower limbs frequently associated with the following: mild intellectual disability with learning difficulties in childhood and/or progressive cognitive decline; peripheral neuropathy; pseudobulbar involvement; and increased reflexes in the upper limbs. Less frequent findings include: cerebellar signs (ataxia, nystagmus, saccadic pursuit); retinal degeneration; pes cavus; scoliosis; and parkinsonism. Onset occurs mainly during infancy or adolescence (range: age 1-31 years). Most affected individuals become wheelchair bound one or two decades after disease onset. Since SPG11 was found to account for 18.9% of all recessive cases, a prevalence of 1:100,000 of this genetic entity can be estimated. Care by a multidisciplinary team; physiotherapy to stretch spastic muscles; anti-spastic drugs such as baclofen; botulin toxin and intrathecal baclofen for severe and disabling spasticity when oral drugs are ineffective. Urodynamic evaluation when bladder dysfunction is evident; anticholinergic drugs for urinary urgency. Treatment of psychiatric manifestations by standard protocols.	Management is symptomatic with physiotherapy, anti-spasticity drugs (baclofen, tizanidine, diazepam, botulinum toxin), and orthoses.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet，Hereditary spastic paraplegia	王星	V1
Neuromuscular Deficiency	1180	CLCN1	Autosomal Dominate Myotonia Congenita	先天性肌强直	Autosomal Dominate Myotonia Congenita	AD,AR	Myotonia congenita is characterized by muscle stiffness present from childhood; all striated muscle groups including the extrinsic eye muscles, the facial muscles, and the tongue may be involved. Men are more severely affected than women.Individuals with the autosomal recessive form may have progressive, minor distal weakness and attacks of transient weakness brought on by movement after rest. The age of onset is variable: in autosomal dominant myotonia congenita, onset of symptoms is usually in infancy or early childhood; in the autosomal recessive form, the average age of onset is slightly older. In both, onset may be as late as the third or fourth decade of life.Myotonia congenita is estimated to affect 1 in 100,000 people worldwide.	Treatment revolves around sodium channel blocking agents such as mexiletine hydrochloride (indication approved in Europe), carbamazepine, phenytoin, ranolazine or lamotrigine.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Neuromuscular Deficiency	1756	DMD	progressive muscular dystrophy	杜氏肌营养不良	Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy	XLR	Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is a neuromuscular disease characterized by rapidly progressive muscle weakness and wasting due to degeneration of skeletal, smooth and cardiac muscle. DMD primarily affects males with an estimated incidence of 1/3,300 male births. Females are usually asymptomatic but a small percentage of female carriers manifest milder forms of the disease (symptomatic form of muscular dystrophy of Duchenne and Becker in female carriers;). Onset occurs in early childhood, and affected boys may show a delay in motor milestones or global developmental delay. Children with DMD generally never achieve the ability to run or jump. The condition progresses rapidly and the child develops a waddling gait and a positive Gower's sign. Climbing stairs becomes difficult and the child begins to fall frequently. Loss of independent ambulation occurs between the ages of 6 and 13 years, the average being 9.5 years in non-steroid treated patients. Once ambulation is lost, joint contractures and scoliosis develop rapidly. Cardiomyopathy and respiratory failure are the cause of death in young adulthood.	International standards of care recommend a multidisciplinary approach. Physiotherapy includes passive stretching and night time ankle-foot orthoses (AFO) to reduce tendo-Achilles contractures. Treatment with corticosteroids (prednisolone, prednisone or deflazacort) is the gold standard. Corticosteroids should be introduced early or when the child's motor skills plateau, usually around 4-5 years of age. Complications of corticosteroid therapy must be managed and include: weight management, gastric protection, monitoring and treatment of osteoporosis, ophthalmic assessment for cataracts and glaucoma. Ataluren (authorized in Europe) is the only disease-modifying drug for use in ambulatory patients older than 5 years of age and where DMD is caused by non-sense mutations. Cardiac management includes regular monitoring (echo and/or MRI) and prophylactic treatment with ACE inhibitors and/or beta inhibitors to maintain cardiac function. Respiratory management includes monitoring respiratory function, assessment for sleep hypoventilation and timely introduction of BiPAP (bilevel positive airway pressure). In older patients cough augmentation and pneumococcal and flu vaccines are recommended. Surgery may be required for correction of scoliosis.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Neuromuscular Deficiency	6606	SMN1	Spinal Muscular Atrophy	脊髓性肌萎缩症	Spinal Muscular Atrophy	AR	Spinal muscular atrophy refers to a group of autosomal recessive neuromuscular disorders characterized by degeneration of the anterior horn cells of the spinal cord, leading to symmetrical muscle weakness and atrophy. Types of SMA are recognized depending on the age of onset, the maximum muscular activity achieved, and survivorship.	Symptomatic management is multidisciplinary and aims to improve quality of life. This includes respiratory support (noninvasive ventilation and airway clearance), physiotherapy, gastrostomy, and antibiotic treatment in case of pulmonary infection. In the last few years, nusinersen, an antisense oligonucleotide, has been approved and made available for treatment of all SMA types in Europe and the USA. Clinical trials and real world data have shown that it reduces the risk of death and improves motor milestones in type 1 patients, with a number of patients achieving sitting without support. The best results are seen following early intervention and in presymptomatic patients. Risdiplam (a small molecule) has a also recently successfully completed clinical trials and has become commercially available in US and, for compassionate use, also in Europe. A different approach, using gene therapy, onasemnogene abeparvovec, has also been approved in US and Europe. The results of the clinical trials in young patients also indicate a very high rate of survival beyond 2 years and an improvement of motor function. Real world data are being collected in older patients but are not yet publicly available.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	王星	V1					2023.4.19:修改Disease categories和Condition Name,"Spinal Muscular Atrophy, Type I"为“Spinal Muscular Atrophy”，修改Disease Generalization，根据OMIM253300，SMA1型只保留其中关于大类疾病的描述。中文描述相应修改为“脊髓性肌肉萎缩症是一种神经肌肉疾病，其特征是由脊髓前角细胞变性导致的对称性肌无力和肌萎缩。亚型根据发病年龄、肌无力的严重程度和存活时间来划分。”
Neuromuscular Deficiency	7054	TH	Dopa-responsive dystonia	酪氨酸羟化酶缺乏症	Tyrosine Hydroxylase Deficiency	AR	Tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) deficiency is associated with a broad phenotypic spectrum ranging from TH-deficient dopa-responsive dystonia (DRD) at the mild end to a levodopa-unresponsive infantile parkinsonism or progressive infantile encephalopathy phenotype at the severe end. Findings in mild cases can be limited initially to unilateral or asymmetric limb dystonia, postural tremor, or gait incoordination; however, progression over time may result in the classic dopa-responsive dystonic gait disorder. Children at the severe end of the spectrum are profoundly disabled from early infancy with developmental motor delay, truncal hypotonia, limb rigidity, and hypokinesia. These infants are more difficult to treat and unusually prone to side effects (dyskinesias and gastrointestinal side effects) of levodopa therapy.Levodopa improves motor function in the majority of mildly affected individuals. The levodopa dose may need to be titrated slowly over weeks to months. In more severely affected infants with encephalopathy or parkinsonism phenotypes, immediate benefit with levodopa may be difficult to observe and dyskinesias may be dose-limiting; however, more prolonged treatment can ameliorate symptoms and allow additional developmental motor progress over time. The prevalence of TH deficiency has not been clearly documented.	L-dopa, usually in combination with carbodopa, is the treatment of choice. The less severe phenotype typically shows a significant positive and quick response, but patients with the more severe phenotype frequently show hypersensitivity to L-dopa, with only moderate or no benefit, even after prolonged treatment and careful dosage adjustment, and are more prone to side effects. Dosage should be monitored for side effects and adjusted as necessary. Inhibitors of dopamine degradation like selegiline may be considered alternatively or in addition to L-dopa, but are rarely used in clinical practice.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Neuromuscular Deficiency	6697	SPR		墨蝶呤还原酶缺乏性多巴反应性张力失调	Dopa-responsive dystonia due to sepiapterin reductase deficiency	AR	Dopa-responsive dystonia (DRD), also known as Segawa's dystonia, is a genetic movement disorder which usually manifests itself during early childhood at around ages 5–8 years (variable start age).DRD is a disorder that involves involuntary muscle contractions, tremors, and other uncontrolled movements (dystonia). The features of this condition range from mild to severe. This form of dystonia is called dopa-responsive dystonia because the signs and symptoms typically improve with sustained use of a medication known as L-Dopa.	Like other forms of DRD, DRD due to an SRD responds dramatically to levodopa (L-dopa) therapy. L-dopa is often combined with a peripheral decarboxylase inhibitor such as carbidopa or benserazide. Treatment should be initiated as early as possible to avoid irreversible neurological damage. The dosage of L-dopa given can range from 0.1 to 16.0 mg/kg/day. Transient dyskinesias frequently occur initially as a result of treatment but are usually resolved by decreasing the dosage. In patients with insufficient improvement of symptoms under L-dopa therapy, 5-hydroxytrytophan (5-HTP) at a dosage of 0.14 to 6 mg/kg/day should be given with carbidopa (to reduce side effects), since combination therapy may result in further improvements of motor and sleep symptoms. Treatment is life-long.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V2	包装	1个基因对应1个疾病		参考V1同类疾病
Neuromuscular Deficiency	6513	SLC2A1	Glucose Transporter Type 1 Deficiency Syndrome	葡萄糖转运蛋白1缺陷综合征	Glucose Transporter Type 1 Deficiency Syndrome	AD,AR	Glucose transporter type 1 (GLUT1) deficiency syndrome is characterized by an encephalopathy marked by childhood epilepsy that is refractory to treatment, deceleration of cranial growth leading to microcephaly, psychomotor retardation, spasticity, ataxia, dysarthria and other paroxysmal neurological phenomena often occurring before meals. Symptoms appear between the age of 1 and 4 months, following a normal birth and gestation. The prevalence is unknown. Diagnosis is based on the clinical picture and biochemical analysis of the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF).	The disorder is treated with the ketogenic diet, which may prevent seizure activity in many individuals with Glut1DS. The response of seizure activity to the ketogenic diet is often prompt and dramatic. It is recommended that the ketogenic diet be started as early as possible and be continued at least until adolescence. Compliance becomes a bigger problem as children grow and become more independent. However, the ketogenic diet seems to help individuals of all ages.	疾病治疗参考-NORD	王星	V1
Neuromuscular Deficiency	6323	SCN1A	Early Infantile Epileptic Encephalopathy	早发幼儿癫痫性脑病6型	Early Infantile Epileptic Encephalopathy 6	AD	This phenotype is defined as seizures with onset during the first year of life (usually around age six months; in some cases before age three months) that do not remit, and usually evolve to include myoclonic seizures.Early seizures are often prolonged febrile seizures. Seizures can sometimes be provoked by modest hyperthermia (e.g., a hot bath, physical exertion)Any seizure type is possible; generalized tonic-clonic, myoclonic, and hemiconvulsive seizures are most common.Myoclonic seizures tend to appear later in the course, often coinciding with the appearance of cognitive dysfunction, ataxia, and psychomotor regression.Status epilepticus is common, and pharmacologic management is difficult.The initial EEGs are often normal, but over time epileptiform activity appears. Patterns can include generalized spike and wave discharges, multiple spike and wave (also referred to as polyspike and wave) discharges, and multifocal spikes.From an analysis of data on children with seizures from a national database, Hurst (1990) determined that the incidence of SMEI is 1 in 40,000.	The main aim of treatment is to reduce seizure frequency and prevent SE. Valproate, clobazam, stiripentol and bromide may control the febrile seizures early in the disease. Stiripentol may be effective in reducing the duration and the frequency of seizures in combination with valproate and clobazam. The ketogenic diet, topiramate and levetiracetam may provide substantial efficacy as adjunctive therapy as well as cannabidiol in association with clobazam. Ongoing clinical trials showed substantial efficacy of fenfluramine as an add-on. Vagus nerve stimulation can be also considered. Sodium channel blockers (carbamazepine, oxcarbazepine, eslicarbazepine, lamotrigine and phenytoin) should be avoided as they worsen seizures. Benzodiazepines are used to treat acute seizures. Children with prominent seizures with falls need protective head gear. Treatment management should be handled by clinicians with expertise in rare and complex epilepsies.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Neuromuscular Deficiency	57526	PCDH19		早发幼儿癫痫性脑病9型	Early Infantile Epileptic Encephalopathy 9	XL	A condition characterized by seizure with onset in infancy or early childhood, cognitive impairment, and delayed development of variable severity in some patients. Additional features include autistic signs and psychosis. The disorder is sex-limited, with the phenotype being restricted to females.	The main aim of treatment is to reduce seizure frequency and prevent SE. Valproate, clobazam, stiripentol and bromide may control the febrile seizures early in the disease. Stiripentol may be effective in reducing the duration and the frequency of seizures in combination with valproate and clobazam. The ketogenic diet, topiramate and levetiracetam may provide substantial efficacy as adjunctive therapy as well as cannabidiol in association with clobazam. Ongoing clinical trials showed substantial efficacy of fenfluramine as an add-on. Vagus nerve stimulation can be also considered. Sodium channel blockers (carbamazepine, oxcarbazepine, eslicarbazepine, lamotrigine and phenytoin) should be avoided as they worsen seizures. Benzodiazepines are used to treat acute seizures. Children with prominent seizures with falls need protective head gear. Treatment management should be handled by clinicians with expertise in rare and complex epilepsies.	疾病治疗参考中文和同类疾病	王星	V1		XLD改为XL	XLD改为XL
Neuromuscular Deficiency	113278	SLC52A3	Brown-Vialetto-Van Laere syndrome	Brown-Vialetto-Van Laere综合征1型	Brown-Vialetto-Van Laere syndrome 1	AR	A rare neurologic disorder characterized by sensorineural hearing loss and a variety of cranial nerve palsies, which develop over a relatively short period of time in a previously healthy individual. Sensorineural hearing loss may precede the neurological signs. The course is invariably progressive, but the rate of decline is variable within and between families. With disease evolution, long tract signs, lower motor neuron signs, cerebellar ataxia and lower cranial nerve (III-VI) palsies develop, giving rise to a complex picture resembling amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Diaphragmatic weakness and respiratory compromise are some of the most distressing features, leading to recurrent chest infections and respiratory failure, which are often the cause of patients' demise.	Riboflavin supplementations is lifesaving and daily administration of a high dose oral riboflavin supplementation should be started immediately upon suspicion of RTD; treatment is lifelong. In cases with early onset, assisted ventilation, tracheostomy, and maintenance of nutrition via gastrostomy may be required. Regular clinical evaluation is required and includes neurological examination as well as evaluation of hearing and vision, respiratory function and skeletal deformities like scoliosis. Depending on the symptoms, physical and speech therapy should be initiated. Cochlear implants have proven highly successful for hearing loss in RTD.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V2	包装	1个基因对应多个疾病，需确定包装疾病	2个疾病都对应Riboflavin Transporter Deficiency，见链接https://www.orpha.net/consor/cgi-bin/OC_Exp.php?lng=EN&Expert=97229	疾病治疗参考-NORD (National Organization for Rare Disorders) 
Neuromuscular Deficiency	79581	SLC52A2		Brown-Vialetto-Van Laere综合征2型	Brown-Vialetto-Van Laere syndrome 2	AR	An autosomal recessive progressive neurologic disorder characterized by early childhood onset of sensorineural deafness, bulbar dysfunction, and severe diffuse muscle weakness and wasting resulting in respiratory insufficiency and loss of independent ambulation. Because it results from a defect in riboflavin metabolism, some patients may benefit from high-dose riboflavin supplementation.	Riboflavin supplementations is lifesaving and daily administration of a high dose oral riboflavin supplementation should be started immediately upon suspicion of RTD; treatment is lifelong. In cases with early onset, assisted ventilation, tracheostomy, and maintenance of nutrition via gastrostomy may be required. Regular clinical evaluation is required and includes neurological examination as well as evaluation of hearing and vision, respiratory function and skeletal deformities like scoliosis. Depending on the symptoms, physical and speech therapy should be initiated. Cochlear implants have proven highly successful for hearing loss in RTD.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V2	包装	1个基因对应1个疾病		疾病治疗参考-NORD (National Organization for Rare Disorders) 
Blood System Deficiency	6231	RPS26	Diamond-Blackfan Anemia	Diamond-Blackfan贫血10型	Diamond-Blackfan Anemia 10	AD	A form of Diamond-Blackfan anemia, a congenital non-regenerative hypoplastic anemia that usually presents early in infancy. Diamond-Blackfan anemia is characterized by a moderate to severe macrocytic anemia, erythroblastopenia, and an increased risk of malignancy. 30 to 40% of Diamond-Blackfan anemia patients present with short stature and congenital anomalies, the most frequent being craniofacial (Pierre-Robin syndrome and cleft palate), thumb and urogenital anomalies.	The two main therapeutic approaches are regular transfusions and long-term corticosteroid therapy. Treatment must be adapted to each case and according to the age of the patient. Steroids should not be administered during the first year of life. Short stature, occurring both as part of the syndrome and due to treatment-related complications (steroids, hemochromatosis), is a major issue for these patients. Allogenic bone-marrow transplantation must be discussed in corticoresistant patients when an unaffected and HLA-identical sib is available.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Blood System Deficiency	6223	RPS19		Diamond-Blackfan贫血1型	Diamond-Blackfan Anemia 1	AD	A form of Diamond-Blackfan anemia, a congenital non-regenerative hypoplastic anemia that usually presents early in infancy. Diamond-Blackfan anemia is characterized by a moderate to severe macrocytic anemia, erythroblastopenia, and an increased risk of developing leukemia. 30 to 40% of Diamond-Blackfan anemia patients present with short stature and congenital anomalies, the most frequent being craniofacial (Pierre-Robin syndrome and cleft palate), thumb and urogenital anomalies.	The two main therapeutic approaches are regular transfusions and long-term corticosteroid therapy. Treatment must be adapted to each case and according to the age of the patient. Steroids should not be administered during the first year of life. Short stature, occurring both as part of the syndrome and due to treatment-related complications (steroids, hemochromatosis), is a major issue for these patients. Allogenic bone-marrow transplantation must be discussed in corticoresistant patients when an unaffected and HLA-identical sib is available.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Blood System Deficiency	6135	RPL11		Diamond-Blackfan贫血7型	Diamond-Blackfan Anemia 7	AD	A form of Diamond-Blackfan anemia, a congenital non-regenerative hypoplastic anemia that usually presents early in infancy. Diamond-Blackfan anemia is characterized by a moderate to severe macrocytic anemia, erythroblastopenia, and an increased risk of developing leukemia. 30 to 40% of Diamond-Blackfan anemia patients present with short stature and congenital anomalies, the most frequent being craniofacial (Pierre-Robin syndrome and cleft palate), thumb and urogenital anomalies.	The two main therapeutic approaches are regular transfusions and long-term corticosteroid therapy. Treatment must be adapted to each case and according to the age of the patient. Steroids should not be administered during the first year of life. Short stature, occurring both as part of the syndrome and due to treatment-related complications (steroids, hemochromatosis), is a major issue for these patients. Allogenic bone-marrow transplantation must be discussed in corticoresistant patients when an unaffected and HLA-identical sib is available.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Blood System Deficiency	3039	HBA1	thalassemia	α地中海贫血	Alpha-thalassemia	AR	Alpha-thalassemia is an inherited hemoglobinopathy characterized by impaired synthesis of alpha-globin chains leading to a variable clinical picture depending on the number of affected alleles. The disease can be classified into clinical subtypes of increasing severity: silent alpha thalassemia, alpha thalassemia trait (or alpha thalassemia minor), hemoglobin H disease (HbH), and Hb Bart's hydrops fetalis. Alpha thalassemia trait causes microcytosis and hypochromia with absent or mild anemia (often detected on routine blood tests), generally with no other symptoms. HbH patients develop moderate hemolytic anemia with variable amounts of HbH along with occasionally severe splenomegaly, sometimes complicated by hypersplenism. Hb Bart's hydrops fetalis involves a severe deficiency in alpha-globin with serious developmental implications.	Patients with silent alpha-thalassemia or thalassemia trait do not require treatment. Specific treatment is however required for other forms of the disease and may include occasional or regular red blood cell transfusions, iron chelation, and other supportive measures.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Blood System Deficiency	3040	HBA2		α地中海贫血	Alpha-thalassemia	AR	Alpha-thalassemia is an inherited hemoglobinopathy characterized by impaired synthesis of alpha-globin chains leading to a variable clinical picture depending on the number of affected alleles. The disease can be classified into clinical subtypes of increasing severity: silent alpha thalassemia, alpha thalassemia trait (or alpha thalassemia minor), hemoglobin H disease (HbH), and Hb Bart's hydrops fetalis. Alpha thalassemia trait causes microcytosis and hypochromia with absent or mild anemia (often detected on routine blood tests), generally with no other symptoms. HbH patients develop moderate hemolytic anemia with variable amounts of HbH along with occasionally severe splenomegaly, sometimes complicated by hypersplenism. Hb Bart's hydrops fetalis involves a severe deficiency in alpha-globin with serious developmental implications.	Patients with silent alpha-thalassemia or thalassemia trait do not require treatment. Specific treatment is however required for other forms of the disease and may include occasional or regular red blood cell transfusions, iron chelation, and other supportive measures.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Blood System Deficiency	3043	HBB		β地中海贫血	Beta-Thalassemia	AR	Beta-thalassemia is characterized by reduced synthesis of the hemoglobin subunit beta (hemoglobin beta chain) that results in microcytic hypochromic anemia, an abnormal peripheral blood smear with nucleated red blood cells, and reduced amounts of hemoglobin A (HbA) on hemoglobin analysis. Individuals with thalassemia major have severe anemia and hepatosplenomegaly. Without treatment, affected children have severe failure to thrive and shortened life expectancy.  Beta-thalassemia is usually inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. HBB is the only gene in which mutation is known to cause beta-thalassemia. It is prevalent in populations in the Mediterranean, Middle East, Transcaucasus, Central Asia and Indian subcontinent. The highest incidences are reported in Cyprus (14%), Sardinia (12%), and Southeast Asia.	There are two major treatment options for BT. 1) A combination of regular transfusions and iron chelation therapy with early and regular parenteral deferoxamine administration has led to increased survival during the last 40 years. Availability of new oral iron chelators and monitoring of cardiac iron overload by MRI result in further clinical improvement and current evaluation is ongoing to determine their impact on morbidity and mortality. In 2006, deferasirox, a once-daily orally administered iron chelator, obtained EU marketing authorization as an Orphan drug for first-line treatment of BT-related iron overload. The marketing authorization for deferiprone, another orally active iron chelator, particularly effective in removing heart iron, is restricted to cases in which treatment with deferoxamine fails or is contraindicated. 2) Hematopoietic stem cell transplant is the curative treatment for BT major: results are very favorable for children displaying an HLA-identical familial donor. Recently, a first patient was successfully treated with gene therapy.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Blood System Deficiency	2175	FANCA	Fanconi anemia	范可尼贫血互补群A	Fanconi anemia, complementation group A	AR	A disorder affecting all bone marrow elements and resulting in anemia, leukopenia and thrombopenia. It is associated with cardiac, renal and limb malformations, dermal pigmentary changes, and a predisposition to the development of malignancies. At the cellular level it is associated with hypersensitivity to DNA-damaging agents, chromosomal instability (increased chromosome breakage) and defective DNA repair.	Supportive care includes transfusions of packed red blood cells (RBC) or leucodepleted platelets but if regular transfusion is required, hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) should be considered. Currently, the only curative treatment for hematologic manifestations is HSCT. Symptomatic treatment includes oral androgen administration, which improves blood counts in most patients but is associated with severe liver toxicity and does not suppress the leukemic risk. Administration of G-CSF, best after bone marrow aspirate, should be considered in patients with acute severe infections. Regular screening for hematological malignancies is recommended during childhood in non-transplanted patients; with the exception of 1q anomalies, identification of a clonal event should lead to transplantation. Screening for solid tumors should start in adolescence, especially in the post-transplant setting; risk may be higher in patients with chronic GVHD. Any suspect lesion should be biopsied. When malignancies develop, treatment is complicated by the sensitivity to radiation and chemotherapy of FA patients.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Blood System Deficiency	5551	PRF1	Familial Hemophagocytic Lymphohistiocytosis	家族性噬血细胞性淋巴组织细胞增多症2型	Familial Hemophagocytic Lymphohistiocytosis 2	AR	Familial hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis(FHL) is a disorder in which the immune system produces too many activated immune cells, natural killer cells, B cells, and macrophages.Excessive amounts of immune system proteins called cytokines are also produced. This overactivation of the immune system causes fever and damages the liver and spleen, resulting in enlargement of these organs.It also destroys blood-producing cells in the bone marrow, a process called hemophagocytosis.FHL is seen mostly in infancy and early childhood. Without therapy, mortality of patients with hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis is high.FHL occurs in approximately 1 in 50,000 individuals worldwide.	In Hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis, familial, 2, antibiotics or antiviral agents can be beneficial to treat/prevent infections that can trigger an exaggerated inflammatory response; Chemo/immunotherapy can achieve clinical stability prior to allogeneic HSCT, which can be effective	疾病治疗参考-安馨可2019	不需解读	V1
Blood System Deficiency	201294	UNC13D		家族性噬血细胞性淋巴组织细胞增多症3型	Familial Hemophagocytic Lymphohistiocytosis 3	AR	Familial hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis(FHL) is a disorder in which the immune system produces too many activated immune cells, natural killer cells, B cells, and macrophages.Excessive amounts of immune system proteins called cytokines are also produced. This overactivation of the immune system causes fever and damages the liver and spleen, resulting in enlargement of these organs.It also destroys blood-producing cells in the bone marrow, a process called hemophagocytosis.FHL is seen mostly in infancy and early childhood. Without therapy, mortality of patients with hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis is high.FHL occurs in approximately 1 in 50,000 individuals worldwide.	Early recognition may allow prompt treatment, as individuals frequently have fatal outcomes unless treated by control of infectious triggers and chemoimmunotherapy, followed by HSCT	疾病治疗参考-安馨可2019	不需解读	V1
Blood System Deficiency	6948	TCN2	Transcobalamin II Deficiency	转钴胺素Ⅱ缺乏症	Transcobalamin II Deficiency	AR	Transcobalamin deficiency (TC) is a disorder of cobalamin transport that usually presents during the first few months of life and is characterized by megaloblastic anemia, failure to thrive, vomiting, weakness and pancytopenia.	Treatment of TC involves maintenance of a very high serum cobalamin concentration (1,000-10,000 pg/ml) by intramuscular (IM) administration of hydroxocobalamin. Oral treatment or treatment with cyanocobalamin instead of hydroxocobalamin may result in poorer outcomes. Treatment with IM hydroxocobalamin at least once a week is recommended, with monitoring of biochemical and hematological parameters to ensure that treatment is effective. Follow-up into adulthood for asymptomatic children who continue to have abnormal metabolite excretion is recommended.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V2	包装	1个基因对应1个疾病		疾病治疗参考-Orphanet (ORPHA:859):https://www.orpha.net/consor/cgi-bin/Disease_Search.php?lng=EN&data_id=1729&Disease_Disease_Search_diseaseGroup=Transcobalamin-II-deficiency&Disease_Disease_Search_diseaseType=Pat&Disease(s)/group%20of%20diseases=Transcobalamin-deficiency&title=Transcobalamin%20deficiency&search=Disease_Search_Simple
Other	6559	SLC12A3	Gitelman syndrome	Gitelman综合征	Gitelman syndrome	AR	Gitelman syndrome (GS), also referred to as familial hypokalemia-hypomagnesemia, is characterized by hypokalemic metabolic alkalosis in combination with significant hypomagnesemia and low urinary calcium excretion.	The management of GS should be individualized and at least annual follow-up in a nephrology clinic to monitor potential complications and evolution is advocated. It is recommended to encourage patients to follow their propensity for salt consumption. Lifelong supplementation of salt, potassium (KCl) or magnesium supplementation (magnesium-oxide and magnesium-sulfate) should be considered. Many symptoms are improved by supplementation, but there is no evidence correlating the severity of biochemical abnormalities with the severity of symptoms. Cardiac work-up should be offered to screen for risk factors for cardiac arrhythmias. All GS patients are encouraged to maintain a high sodium and high potassium diet.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Other	4538	MT-ND4	Leber Hereditary Optic Neuropathy	Leber遗传性视神经病变	Leber Hereditary Optic Neuropathy	Mi	A rare hereditary optic neuropathy characterized by sudden onset, painless central vision loss, loss of retinal ganglion cells and optic atrophy.	The management of AS is only symptomatic, mainly aiming at slowing the progression to ESRD. It includes angiotensin blockade (e.g. angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers), diuretics, and a salt-restricted diet. The most severe cases require dialysis and renal replacement therapy. Regular hearing and ocular follow-up are recommended. Hearing aids should be prescribed when needed, and surgical intervention for ocular anomalies can be considered.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet，Alport syndrome；发病年龄和疾病描述参考Orphanet，ORPHA:104	不需解读	V1
Other	1287	COL4A5	Alport syndrome	X连锁Alport综合征	Alport syndrome 1, X-linked	XLD	A syndrome that is characterized by progressive glomerulonephritis, renal failure, sensorineural deafness, specific eye abnormalities (lenticonous and macular flecks), and glomerular basement membrane defects. The disorder shows considerable heterogeneity in that families differ in the age of end-stage renal disease and the occurrence of deafness.	The management of AS is only symptomatic, mainly aiming at slowing the progression to ESRD. It includes angiotensin blockade (e.g. angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers), diuretics, and a salt-restricted diet. The most severe cases require dialysis and renal replacement therapy. Regular hearing and ocular follow-up are recommended. Hearing aids should be prescribed when needed, and surgical intervention for ocular anomalies can be considered.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet，Alport syndrome	不需解读	V1
Other	1285	COL4A3		COL4A3相关Alport综合征	Alport Syndrome, COL4A3-related	AD,AR	Alport syndrome (AS) is characterized by renal, cochlear, and ocular involvement. Renal disease progresses from microscopic hematuria to proteinuria, progressive renal insufficiency, and end-stage renal disease (ESRD) in all males with X-linked (XL) AS, and in all males and females with autosomal recessive (AR) AS. Progressive sensorineural hearing loss (SNHL) is usually present by late childhood or early adolescence. Ocular findings include anterior lenticonus (which is virtually pathognomonic), maculopathy (whitish or yellowish flecks or granulations in the perimacular region), corneal endothelial vesicles (posterior polymorphous dystrophy), and recurrent corneal erosion. Thin basement membrane nephropathy (TBMN) is characterized by persistent microscopic hematuria often first observed in childhood; progressive renal involvement and extrarenal abnormalities are rare.Alport syndrome: angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor and/or angiotensin receptor blocker in proteinuric individuals; potential living related donors must be evaluated carefully to avoid nephrectomy in an affected individual. Routine treatment of hypertension; renal transplantation for ESRD. routine treatment of SNHL and cataracts; surgical intervention for symptomatic leiomyomas.Alport syndrome occurs in approximately 1 in 50,000 newborns.	The management of AS is only symptomatic, mainly aiming at slowing the progression to ESRD. It includes angiotensin blockade (e.g. angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers), diuretics, and a salt-restricted diet. The most severe cases require dialysis and renal replacement therapy. Regular hearing and ocular follow-up are recommended. Hearing aids should be prescribed when needed, and surgical intervention for ocular anomalies can be considered.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet，Alport syndrome	不需解读	V1
Other	1286	COL4A4		COL4A4相关Alport综合征	Alport Syndrome, COL4A4-related	AR	Alport syndrome (AS) is characterized by renal, cochlear, and ocular involvement. Renal disease progresses from microscopic hematuria to proteinuria, progressive renal insufficiency, and end-stage renal disease (ESRD) in all males with X-linked (XL) AS, and in all males and females with autosomal recessive (AR) AS. Progressive sensorineural hearing loss (SNHL) is usually present by late childhood or early adolescence. Ocular findings include anterior lenticonus (which is virtually pathognomonic), maculopathy (whitish or yellowish flecks or granulations in the perimacular region), corneal endothelial vesicles (posterior polymorphous dystrophy), and recurrent corneal erosion. Thin basement membrane nephropathy (TBMN) is characterized by persistent microscopic hematuria often first observed in childhood; progressive renal involvement and extrarenal abnormalities are rare.Alport syndrome: angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor and/or angiotensin receptor blocker in proteinuric individuals; potential living related donors must be evaluated carefully to avoid nephrectomy in an affected individual. Routine treatment of hypertension; renal transplantation for ESRD. routine treatment of SNHL and cataracts; surgical intervention for symptomatic leiomyomas.Alport syndrome occurs in approximately 1 in 50,000 newborns.	The management of AS is only symptomatic, mainly aiming at slowing the progression to ESRD. It includes angiotensin blockade (e.g. angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers), diuretics, and a salt-restricted diet. The most severe cases require dialysis and renal replacement therapy. Regular hearing and ocular follow-up are recommended. Hearing aids should be prescribed when needed, and surgical intervention for ocular anomalies can be considered.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet，Alport syndrome	不需解读	V1
Other	7248	TSC1	Tuberous Sclerosis	结节性硬化症1型	Tuberous Sclerosis 1	AD	An autosomal dominant multi-system disorder that affects especially the brain, kidneys, heart, and skin. It is characterized by hamartomas (benign overgrowths predominantly of a cell or tissue type that occurs normally in the organ) and hamartias (developmental abnormalities of tissue combination). Clinical manifestations include epilepsy, learning difficulties, behavioral problems, and skin lesions. Seizures can be intractable and premature death can occur from a variety of disease-associated causes.	Management is multidisciplinary and includes frequent clinical follow-up as well as treatment of epilepsy, tumors, and TAND. Early referral to a specialized pediatric epilepsy center is strongly recommended. Epilepsy treatment includes the use of vigabatrin (GABA transaminase inhibitor) for infantile spasms and early onset focal seizures. For pre-symptomatic infants, video electroencephalogram monitoring is recommended to identify subtle or electrographic seizures. If vigabatrin fails, other antiseizure medicine, ketogenic diet, vagal nerve stimulation, or mTOR pathway inhibitor (everolimus) might be helpful. Early identification of candidates for epilepsy surgery is highly recommended. The developing tumors require frequent follow-up and can be treated with mTOR inhibitors or surgery.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Other	7249	TSC2		结节性硬化症2型	Tuberous sclerosis-2	AD	TSC is characterized by multisystem hamartomas, most commonly skin, brain, kidney, lung and heart, appearing at different ages. Skin involvement includes: hypomelanotic macules (ash leaf) present within the first years of life; angiofibromas that appear at age 3-4 years as erythematous and papulonodular lesions; ungual fibromas; cephalic and lumbar (shagreen patch) fibrous plaques; and ''confetti'' skin lesions appearing in childhood to early adolescence. Brain is involved in almost all cases of TSC, with the presence of different neuropathological lesions, such as cortico/subcortical tubers, radial migration lines, subependymal nodules, SEGA. SEGA can cause hydrocephalus (growth risk higher in the first 3 decades). Early-onset epilepsy (infantile spasms and/or focal seizures) is present in 85% of patients. Neuropsychiatric features (intellectual disability, attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder, autism spectrum disorders (ASD), self-injury, anxiety and obsessive compulsive tendencies have also been reported. Renal angiomyolipomas (AML) develop during childhood with a higher risk of growth during adolescence and adulthood and manifest by pain, hematuria/retroperitoneal hemorrhage, abdominal masses, hypertension and renal failure. Lymphangioleiomyomatosis (LAM), multifocal micronodular pneumocyte hyperplasia (MMPH) and pulmonary cysts develop during adulthood and manifest with dyspnea, pneumothorax, or chylothorax. Cardiac rhabdomyomas (CR) appear during the fetal period and may become symptomatic (outflow tract obstruction or by interfering with valvular function) during infancy and early childhood. Additional features include dental enamel pitting, intraoral fibromas and skeletal dysplasias.	Management is multidisciplinary and includes frequent clinical follow-up as well as treatment of epilepsy, tumors, and TAND. Early referral to a specialized pediatric epilepsy center is strongly recommended. Epilepsy treatment includes the use of vigabatrin (GABA transaminase inhibitor) for infantile spasms and early onset focal seizures. For pre-symptomatic infants, video electroencephalogram monitoring is recommended to identify subtle or electrographic seizures. If vigabatrin fails, other antiseizure medicine, ketogenic diet, vagal nerve stimulation, or mTOR pathway inhibitor (everolimus) might be helpful. Early identification of candidates for epilepsy surgery is highly recommended. The developing tumors require frequent follow-up and can be treated with mTOR inhibitors or surgery.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Other	1080	CFTR	Cystic Fibrosis	囊性纤维化	Cystic Fibrosis	AR	Cystic Fibrosis is the most common fatal genetic disorder in caucasians. It can involve the exocrine glands of many systems and organs, especially lung[1]. The onset of cystic Fibrosis is usually in infancy, a few days after birth. Specific clinical symptoms include frequent bronchial infection, airway obstruction, mild cough associated with pneumonia, thickened secretions, bowel obstruction, rectal prolapse et al[2,3]. The main goal of treatment is to prevent infection, reduce lung secretions and sticky, improve the breath, and keep the balance nutrition. Cystic Fibrosis has a poor prognosis, about half of the children die before the age of 10 due to complications. An early diagnosis and treatment can help patients survive to adulthood. According to statistics, during 1992 ~ 2001, the incidence in French newborns is about 1:2,838. But the frequency can reach 1:1,972, if we count the termination of pregnancy by prenatal diagnosis[4].	Treatment is transitioning from addressing symptoms to correcting biochemical defects. The oldest therapies include bronchial drainage and broad spectrum antibiotics for increasingly resistant pathogens. Pancreatic enzyme replacement with vitamin and calorie supplements improve digestion and nutrition. Insulin replacement for CFRD addresses lack of insulin release not seen in other types of diabetes. New CFTR modulators partly restore chloride channel function in about 90% of patients. However, they do not treat absent, truncated or severely malformed proteins.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Other	5925	RB1	Retinoblastoma	视网膜母细胞瘤	Retinoblastoma	AD	Retinoblastoma (RB) is a rare type of eye cancer in the retina that typically develops before the age of 5. It usually affects only one eye, but 1/3 of children with RB develop cancer in both eyes. The first sign is typically a visible whiteness in the pupil called "cat's eye reflex" or leukocoria, which is particularly noticeable in photographs taken with a flash. Other signs and symptoms include strabismus; persistent eye pain, redness or irritation; and blindness or poor vision in the affected eye(s).	Treatment requires a multidisciplinary highly specialized approach. In HIC, conservative treatments for at least one eye are possible in most bilateral cases and increasingly used in unilateral cases. Laser treatment alone or combined with systemic chemotherapy, cryotherapy and brachytherapy are very efficient tools as well as the more recently developped local chemotherapy using intra-arterial and/or intravitreous delivery. Enucleation is still frequently used in large unilateral RB as well as in bilateral with large unilateral tumor. External beam radiotherapy is now avoided (risk of late effects, including second cancers in irradiated field).	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	不需解读	V1
Other	51117	COQ4	Primary Coenzyme Q10 deficiency	原发性辅酶Q10缺乏症7型	Primary Coenzyme Q10 deficiency 7	AR	Primary coenzyme Q10 deficiency-7 is an autosomal recessive disorder resulting from mitochondrial dysfunction. Most patients have onset of severe cardiac or neurologic symptoms soon after birth, usually resulting in death. Rare patients may have later onset with a more protracted course. Tissue samples from affected individuals show decreased levels of coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10).	Research shows that, early oral supplementation with high-dose CoQ10 improved a wide spectrum of phenotypes of primary CoQ10 deficiency.	疾病治疗参考中文和PMID35154243	王星	V1

Metabolism-Amino Acid  Metabolism Disorders	5053	PAH		高苯丙氨酸血症，非PKU轻度	Hyperphenylalaninemia, non-PKU mild	AR	Phenylketonuria (PKU) is an inherited disorder that increases the levels of a substance called phenylalanine in blood. Phenylalanine hydroxylase (PAH) deficiency results in intolerance to the dietary intake of the essential amino acid phenylalanine and produces a spectrum of disorders including classic phenylketonuria (PKU), non-PKU hyperphenylalaninemia (non-PKU HPA), and variant PKU. Infants with classic PKU without treatment may develop permanent intellectual disability, and seizures, delayed development, behavioral problems and psychiatric disorders are also common.PKU is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. PAH is the primary gene in which mutations are known to cause phenylalanine hydroxylase deficiency. Its occurrence varies among ethnic groups and geographic regions worldwide. In  China, PKU occurs in 1 in 11,144 newborns,with a carrier rate of 1/35. In turks, the prevalence is 1:2,600, with a carrier rate of 1/26.	Dietary measures, including avoidance of aspartame, as well as adjuvant medical therapy, can be effective in preventing severe sequelae, including in preconception/prenatal circumstances	疾病治疗参考-安馨可2018	不需解读	V1	按之前操作检出报告，疾病不包装至展示材料		包装疾病以外要报告的疾病；2022.6.14，王星修改英文疾病名称“[Hyperphenylalaninemia, non-PKU mild]”为Hyperphenylalaninemia, non-PKU mild
Blood System Deficiency	3043	HBB		镰刀形红细胞贫血	Sickle Cell Disease	AR	Sickle cell disease (SCD) is a group of disorders that affects hemoglobin. Signs and symptoms usually begin in early childhood.It is characterized by intermittent vaso-occlusive events and chronic hemolytic anemia. Vaso-occlusive events result in tissue ischemia leading to acute and chronic pain as well as organ damage that can affect any organ in the body, including the bones, lungs, liver, kidneys, spleen,brain, eyes, and joints. Chronic hemolysis can result in varying degrees of anemia, jaundice, cholelithiasis, and delayed growth and sexual maturation. Persons with sialuria need symptomatic and supportive management. About 90% of patients survive to age 20, and close to 50% survive beyond the fifth decade. In 2001, according to one study, the estimated mean survival for sickle cell patients was 53 years old for men and 58 years old for women with homozygous SCD.SCD affects millions of people worldwide. It is most common among people whose ancestors come from Africa and Mediterranean countries etc. SCD is the most common inherited blood disorder in the United States, affecting 70,000 to 80,000 Americans. The disease is estimated to occur in 1 in 500 African Americans and 1 in 1,000 to 1,400 Hispanic Americans.	From birth, management should integrate prevention of infections, pain and eventual complications, with social, psycho-educational and nutritional support, within multidisciplinary centers that are equipped with intensive care (immediate access to blood transfusion). Special attention should be paid to pregnant women with SCA. Prospective research of vasculopathies is needed. An orphan drug based on hydroxycarbamide (hydroxyurea) has obtained European marketing authorization for the severe forms of the disease. Regular or occasional transfusions remain an essential therapeutic method. Bone marrow transplantation has its main indication in severe cases, particularly in cases with cerebral vasculopathy. L-glutamine, crizanlizumab and voxelotor are currently in phase III trials.	疾病治疗参考-Orphanet	王星	V1,V2.2					2023.3.22:V2.2补充英文该表型基因关联
